

Vol. 12 No. 301 Monday, 22 May 2006


      IISD RS web coverage


 WORKSHOP ON CARBON Capture AND STORAGE


  Japanese Version


 Review of COP/MOP 1 and COP 11 arrangements: 


 ARRANGEMENTS FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL MEETINGS: COP 12 and COP/MOP 2:

Many participants agreed that CCS could address a large amount of carbon dioxide emissions, notably from power production stationary sources, while noting that it increases energy use by approximately 30-40% and is not yet financially or technologically viable on a large scale. Some delegates also observed that while CCS is not a ef bf bdsilver bullet solution, ef bf bd it could be part of a portfolio of energy options. There were also comments that: public acceptance is needed for CCS to achieve wide implementation; good site selection, monitoring and remediation methods are critical for safety and limiting the chance of leakage; and regulatory incentives are needed if CCS is to move beyond enhanced oil recovery.

Other participants expressed concerns about possible leakage and ocean storage, about the high costs associated with capture, and whether incentives for developing renewable energy will be hampered by CCS. Additional concerns related to the 5-10 year window still required for research and development before wide-scale adoption of CCS, and the need for a favorable business climate and policy mechanisms. Participants also pointed out that the scale of the CCS infrastructure required raises questions about the role of public and private sector involvement. Finally, participants also discussed CCS in the context of the CDM.

  PDF Format

Twenty panelists examined various aspects of CCS, including: technology options (primarily concerning geologic storage); pilot projects in Canada, Algeria, and the Netherlands; financial and monitoring challenges; nascent ocean storage technology; the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum; policy and legal issues; applying CCS emission estimation methodologies in national greenhouse gas inventories; training courses to build awareness and capacity; an EU policy framework for CCS; and risk assessment.

 


 Organization of intergovernmental process: 


  French Version


 Future sessional periods: 

Chair Kumarsingh closed the session by highlighting key issues raised during the workshop, stating that while on-the-ground CCS experience exists, there is not yet much experience in developing countries. He noted that a related workshop is taking place on Monday, 22 May, on CCS as a CDM project activity (for more official information on both workshops, visit:  http://unfccc.int/meetings/sb24/in-session/items/3623.php).  

 Contact groups and informal consultations were held throughout Saturday on a wide range of issues, including adaptation, the Adaptation Fund, arrangements for intergovernmental meetings, deforestation, IPCC 2006 Guidelines and harvested wood products, privileges and immunities, research and systematic observation, and the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF). In addition, bilateral and small group consultations continued under the AWG, and an in-session workshop was held on carbon capture and storage.


 

    Published by the     International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)


  Spanish Version



 Informal bilateral and small group consultations continued on Saturday, with discussions focusing on general issues of process and objectives. Only limited progress was reported and consultations will continue.

An in-session workshop on carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) convened on Saturday. SBSTA Chair Kishan Kumarsingh explained that the workshop ef bf bds objective was to improve understanding of CCS through an overview of the IPCC Special Report on CCS, noting that it underscores CCS ef bf bds potential and discusses financial, social, environmental, legal, public perception and safety issues. He also indicated that the workshop would highlight experiences and lessons learned and said he would prepare a report for consideration at SBSTA 25. 

 Delegates considered a number of organizational options. Many favored clustering agenda items and prioritizing issues, while noting that the current agenda reflects a careful 93balance 94 of issues proposed by parties. The G-77/CHINA, EU, and UMBRELLA GROUP opposed extending the meeting beyond two weeks, although the G-77/CHINA added that it might consider a one-day extension. Parties also objected to evening sessions, citing concerns over fatigue. AUSTRALIA suggested shortening the lunchtime break. Participants also supported setting limits on speaking times in formal sessions. CHINA said the AWG should be prioritized. Responding to questions about financing, Kinley said extending the meeting dates or holding evenings sessions would have only a minor impact on the budget. Co-Chair de Wet suggested that parties should identify three or four priorities, and also three or four non-priorities that could be deferred to a subsequent meeting.
