

Matters relating to LDCs:


 Spanish Version

 


French Version

Mutsuyoshi Nishimura, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, emphasized the UNFCCC objective of stabilizing emissions. He said the next commitment period should achieve stabilization through an effective framework that adds new tools and strategies to the 93Kyoto toolbox. 94 He urged 93fairness and equity on burden sharing 94 among countries if the process is not to collapse. SAUDI ARABIA said many Annex I countries had not shown leadership. Nishimura replied that Japan is 93deadly serious 94 about climate change.  

 Published by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)

Alf Wills, Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, South Africa, underlined the significance of using cumulative emissions data as the basis for an equitable approach to determining future commitments and providing space for developing countries to achieve their sustainable development goals. NORWAY observed that emissions reduction targets for developing countries were not discussed during the workshop.  

Additional guidance to the GEF: 


Japanese Version

PDF Format

Harald Dovland, Environment Ministry of Norway, noted that Norway also had a long-term 93aspirational goal 94 of 2 b0C. On future policies, he highlighted recommendations from the Norwegian Commission on Low Emissions, and a focus on renewable energy, pioneering and developing carbon dioxide capture and storage, and awareness raising campaigns.  


IISD RS web coverage

  

On Tuesday, the Ad Hoc Working Group on Further Commitments for Annex I Parties under the Kyoto Protocol (AWG) convened throughout the day for an in-session workshop focused on the scientific basis for further Annex I commitments, and on Annex I parties 92 emissions trends and mitigation potential. In addition,  SBSTA convened in the morning to consider emissions from deforestation in developing countries, research and systematic observation, methodological issues under the UNFCCC and Kyoto Protocol, and various other matters. SBI met in the afternoon to take up issues relating to the UNFCCC 92s financial mechanism, education and public awareness, capacity building, and the adverse impacts of climate change and response measures (UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9).   

During the subsequent discussion, TUVALU noted the need to include all major emitters and sectors, and consider the cost of adaptation. SOUTH AFRICA said the question of equity needs to be addressed at a fundamental level. NEW ZEALAND underscored the theme of equity, questioned assumptions about curbing the growth in emissions, and highlighted the sectoral approach.  


Vol. 12 No. 309 Wednesday, 8 November 2006

INDONESIA and the GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT CENTRE pointed to the role of peatlands in the carbon cycle, and NEPAL stressed community forestry. Hernan Carlino (Argentina) and Audun Rosland (Norway) will co-chair a contact group.  

Issues relating to greenhouse gas inventories: 

Report of the GEF: 

Jos e9 Domingos Gonzalez Miguez, Brazil 92s Ministry of Science and Technology, presented the Brazilian proposal emphasizing historical responsibility and shifting the focus from emissions to temperature increase. FINLAND suggested the AWG look into differentiation methodologies and not just historical responsibility, while CANADA said such responsibility is 93nuanced. 94 AWG Chair Zammit Cutajar wondered if current discussions on further emissions reductions by Annex I countries should consider this broader historical approach.  

Adrian Macey and Hayden Montgomery, New Zealand, presented on mitigation of methane and nitrous oxide emissions from agriculture, noting that mitigation options are limited and calling for increased international research efforts.   

COP 12 AND COP/MOP 2 highlights: TUESDAY, 7 NOVEMBER 2006  

Artur Runge-Metzger underlined that offsetting emissions through the CDM cannot solve the climate problem. He pointed to the limited global emissions stabilization impact if all Annex I parties were to achieve all their reductions through domestic action, given the proposed 2 b0C target for temperature rise.   



Mutsuyoshi Nishimura highlighted Japan 92s energy efficiency and decoupling of emissions from growth in GDP. He emphasized the importance of policies and measures other than the market to drive technological innovation.   

Third review of the financial mechanism: 

Artur Runge-Metzger, European Commission, described the EU 92s agreed policy of aiming to limit global temperature rise to 2 b0C Celsius, based on a stabilization of concentrations at 450ppm. He said this would mean emissions reductions of between 60-80% by 2050 for industrialized countries, assuming US participation.  

The Russian proposal on long-term commitments also generated discussion. Informal talks on Tuesday apparently did not lead to a breakthrough, with the current discussions being described by one observer as ef bf bdmore of an agenda fight. ef bf bd However, early reports suggest the proposal is likely to be part of the so-called ef bf bdmulti-track process ef bf bd on post-2012 issues for some time.
