
COP 12 President Kibwana opened COP/MOP 2. On organizational issues, he noted some parties 92 concerns with an agenda item relating to consultations on the Russian proposal to develop appropriate procedures for the approval of voluntary commitments. Parties agreed to the provisional agenda (FCCC/KP/CMP/2006/1) with the item on the Russian proposal held in abeyance, and invited SBSTA Chair Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad and Tobago) to hold consultations with a view to adopting the agenda on 9 November.   


SBSTA Chair Kumarsingh opened SBSTA 92s 25th session. Parties adopted the agenda (FCCC/SBSTA/2006/6), with the item on SIDS held in abeyance pending consultations under COP 12.   

Budget performance for the biennium 2006-2007:

COP 12 AND COP/MOP 2 highlights: MONDAY, 6 NOVEMBER 2006  


Vol. 12 No. 308 Tuesday, 7 November 2006


 Spanish Version

 


French Version

ADMINISTRATIVE, FINANCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL MATTERS: Financial statements for 2004-2005:

On election of the Bureau, President Kibwana said current members would remain until the new Bureau was finalized. Parties also adopted the list of observers (FCCC/CP/2006/2). On the organization of work, Richard Kinley, Secretary of the Conference, identified a number of issues that would be taken up by SBI and SBSTA. President Kibwana noted agreement at SB 24 that meetings after 6:00 pm should only be held under exceptional circumstances, and said the Bureau would decide whether such circumstances exist.  

UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer highlighted moving from assessment to action on adaptation, strengthening and making the CDM more accessible, Joint Implementation, technology transfer, and maintaining momentum in talks on the future.  

Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the prospects for outcomes from the review of the Protocol under Article 9, adaptation and technology transfer, the AWG and the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments. SAUDI ARABIA called for progress on the issue of the impacts on developing countries arising from countries 92 responses to climate change. TUVALU appealed for progress on the Montreal Action Plan, resources for adaptation and capacity building.  

 Published by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)

Continuing review of the Secretariat:

Arthur Moody Awori, Vice-President of Kenya, officially opened the meeting. He noted that sub-Saharan Africa will be among the regions hardest hit by climate change and called for an environmentally sound and equitable global strategy to provide a post-2012 response to climate change.  

 sbi 25  

cop 12 OPENING SESSION  

cop/mop 2 opening session  

The twelfth Conference of the Parties (COP 12) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) began on Monday morning with an opening ceremony, speeches and consideration of organizational matters. This was followed in the afternoon by the opening of the second Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP/MOP 2). The Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) and Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) began their work, and the Ad Hoc Working Group on Further Commitments for Annex I Parties under the Kyoto Protocol (AWG) also convened briefly late in the afternoon.   


Japanese Version

PDF Format

awg 2  

in the BREEZEWAYS  

The COP elected by acclamation Kivutha Kibwana, Kenya 92s Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, as President of COP 12. President Kibwana said the Stern Review has highlighted the economic consequences of climate change. He identified key conference goals, including: agreeing on concrete activities for the five-year programme of work on adaptation; encouraging equitable distribution of CDM projects; and using the review of the mandate of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT) for 93new thinking 94 on technology transfer.  


IISD RS web coverage

BELARUS outlined its proposal to amend Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol and expressed hope that a decision would be reached at this meeting. The EU stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and strengthen the capacities of the LDCs to implement CDM projects. She highlighted the need to review and enhance the Protocol in accordance with its Article 9. The G-77/CHINA urged progress on adaptation and improving the geographical distribution of CDM projects.  

Anna Tibaijuka, Director-General of the UN Office at Nairobi and UN-HABITAT 92s Executive Director, noted that the biggest environmental and human settlement challenges are in developing countries.   

In a video address, COP 11 President Rona Ambrose (Canada) underscored the need to find a truly effective global solution to climate change.  

Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that sub-Saharan Africa only accounts for 1.7% of CDM projects. He underscored priorities such as the adaptation work programme, the SCCF, and the LDC and Adaptation Funds. Bangladesh, for the LDCs, underscored compensation for victims of climate change and immediate funding and implementation of completed National Adaptation Plans of Action.  

Harald Dovland (Norway) will conduct informal consultations on administrative, financial and institutional matters.   

Some delegates were heard commenting on how smoothly the first day had gone logistically, especially considering pre-meeting concerns about how the UN ef bf bds beautiful but relatively small Office at Nairobi might cope with an estimated 6000 delegates. However, substantive issues appeared to be causing more concerns, with fears over whether negotiators will be able to navigate their way through such a heavy agenda now that evening sessions are ruled out except under ef bf bdexceptional circumstances. ef bf bd There was also grumbling among some delegates that SBSTA had already broken the new ef bf bd6:00 pm rule ef bf bd by meeting until close to 7:00 pm. Others, however, argued that some flexibility on evening sessions will be essential.  



sbsta 25  

SBI Chair Thomas Becker (Denmark) opened SBI 25. The meeting 92s agenda (FCCC/SBI/2006/12 and Add.1) was adopted, with the item on SIDS held in abeyance.   

OTHER MATTERS: Levels of emissions for the base year of Croatia:

NIUE emphasized the need for technological and financial assistance for adaptation. The EU highlighted the Stern Review, stressed the need for long-term action where adaptation complements mitigation, and suggested exploring new strategies under the Montreal Action Plan.   

On improving access to financial and technical support (FCCC/SBI/2006/24 and FCCC/SBI/2006/MISC.14), the CGE, supported by the EU, highlighted linking the preparation of communications with sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies. The G-77/CHINA urged the GEF to improve the efficiency of its funding process. Arthur Rolle (Bahamas) and Henriette Bersee (Netherlands) will conduct informal consultations.   

AWG Chair Michael Zammit Cutajar opened AWG 2 and highlighted two main items on its agenda, on further commitments and the length of commitments for Annex I parties, and on the work plan and schedule of future sessions. Parties adopted the agenda (FCCC/KP/AWG/2006/3). Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado (Brazil) briefed delegates on an AWG in-session workshop scheduled for Tuesday, 7 November.   
