

      IISD RS web coverage

 Participants then debated whether increased carbon dioxide emissions resulting from CCS should be considered as leakage. Differences emerged over the inclusion of enhanced oil recovery (EOR) projects under the CDM, with some arguing that EOR leads to increased oil extraction, which counteracts the sustainable development goals of the CDM. Regarding additionality and EOR, a number of delegates argued for a case-by-case assessment.

 Contact groups and informal consultations were held throughout Monday on a wide range of issues, including adaptation, the Adaptation Fund, arrangements for intergovernmental meetings, bunker fuels, capacity building (under both the Convention and the Protocol), deforestation, review of the financial mechanism, research and systematic observation, the Special Climate Change Fund and technology transfer. In addition, informal consultations continued under the AWG, and an in-session workshop on carbon capture and storage under the CDM took place.

 Delegates met for informal consultations during the morning and the afternoon. In the morning, parties restated their positions and focused on, inter alia, what to include and what not to include in the group ef bf bds future discussions. Delegates underscored issues such as a sectoral approach, bunker fuels, and forestry. In addition, the EU provided background information with regard to its emissions reduction targets. 


  Japanese Version

In the ensuing discussion, participants raised a range of issues, including those pertaining to project boundary, leakage, and permanence. On the definition of project boundary, participants generally concurred that the project boundary should include capture, transport, and injection and storage, and that this could be handled with few difficulties under the existing CDM framework. There was some disagreement, however, as to whether CCS projects whose project boundary spans more than one country should be included under the CDM at this time.

The workshop closed in the early afternoon, with several participants commenting on the positive tone of discussions.

Heleen de Coninck, ECN, presented a summary of the SBSTA workshop on CCS and highlighted those aspects of the IPCC Special Report on CCS and the IPCC 2006 Guidelines for inventories that might be relevant to the inclusion of CCS under the CDM. The Secretariat then highlighted relevant terminology and outlined three CCS project methodologies submitted to the CDM Executive Board.

In the afternoon, delegates discussed the possibility of a workshop or other means to consider the scientific basis for Protocol Article 3.9.  

  PDF Format

On permanence, most participants agreed on the importance of rigorous site selection to minimize seepage potential. They debated whether long-term liability should rest with the host country or with those who receive CERs. Some argued that tools such as insurance, temporary CERs and sequestration bonds could provide incentives for ensuring permanence, while others advocated more flexibility. Most speakers agreed that monitoring should occur as long as seepage posed a threat, however there was no consensus on whether or not to establish monitoring timeframes.

A few participants highlighted the limited potential of CCS as CDM project activities, particularly for the 2008-2012 period, given the current price of carbon.


Vol. 12 No. 302 Tuesday, 23 May 2006

  CAPACITY BUILDING (CONVENTION):  This issue was addressed in a contact group and informal consultations. The G-77/CHINA supported a draft COP decision on monitoring capacity building, while the EU, JAPAN and US said a decision was unnecessary and proposed adopting only SBI conclusions. The EU emphasized the upcoming comprehensive capacity building overview. Delegates also discussed whether it is necessary to define the goals of monitoring capacity building and whether a workshop would be useful. Informal consultations will continue until the next contact group meeting on Wednesday.

 

In the evening, a draft Chair ef bf bds text on an approach to possible conclusions was distributed. In the text, the AWG: takes note of parties ef bf bd submissions and statements; notes that the objective is to make a significant contribution by Annex I parties to achieving the aim of the Convention through their further commitments under the Kyoto Protocol to ef bf bdsubstantially limit and reduce emissions ef bf bd; and clarifies that the focus of the AWG ef bf bds initial work plan will be to assemble the information and analysis needed to enable Annex I parties to agree to and ratify amendments to Annex B of the Protocol. The draft text also outlines some possible topics for the initial work plan, including ef bf bdlevel of ambition, ef bf bd Annex I emission trends and mitigation potential, experience gained and lessons learned in implementing the Protocol, ef bf bdarchitecture ef bf bd of further Annex I commitments, including duration of the commitment periods, and legal matters. The draft clarifies that the schedule of work for the AWG in 2006 and 2007 will be conducted during the regular sessional periods. 


 

    Published by the     International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)


  Spanish Version

An in-session workshop on carbon capture and storage (CCS) as CDM project activities convened on Monday. Session Co-Chairs Georg B ef bf bdrsting (Norway) and Hern ef bf bdn Carlino (Argentina) explained that the aim of the workshop was to open a dialogue on this topic, focusing on project boundary, leakage and permanence, and taking into account issues raised in submissions invited in Decision 7/CMP.1.




  French Version
