
The AWG met informally in the afternoon, evening and late into the night. A revised Chair 92s non-paper was distributed in the afternoon, as well as a G-77/China text on organization of work for AWG 2. The Chair 92s non-paper included text elaborating on the focus of the AWG, the need for information and analysis, emission trends, experience gained from implementation of the Protocol and mechanisms, future sessions and a list of indicative relevant topics. The G-77/China text proposed two components to AWG 92s future work: the first involving a presentation by the IPCC Chair and party presentations on assessment of implementation of climate policies, emission trends and how to determine overall reduction commitments; and the second involving a determination of commitments, duration of the second commitment period, and ensuring that there is no gap between periods. Discussions focused on, inter alia, the content and format of the workshop at COP/MOP 2, and the status of the Chair 92s revised non-paper.


      IISD RS web coverage


   SB 24 &amp; AWG HIGHLIGHTS:  WEDNESDAY, 24 MAY 2006


  Japanese Version

In the evening contact group meeting, delegates continued discussions on how to refer to potential fund-managing institutions in the draft decision. Several developing countries supported referring to some specific institutions while also leaving the invitation open to other organizations. However, CANADA, NORWAY and the EU preferred wording that does not refer to specific organizations. After several proposals for compromise wording proved unsuccessful, delegates agreed to consider a Co-Chairs\' proposal noting that 93the SBI invited institutions, including, among others, those contained in the annex 85without prejudice to any institution 85 94 The contact group will reconvene on Thursday afternoon.


Vol. 12 No. 304 Thursday, 25 May 2006

  PDF Format

  CAPACITY BUILDING (CONVENTION):  The contact group considered the Co-Chairs 92 proposal for SBI conclusions on monitoring capacity-building activities. Many delegates noted that while they were close to agreeing on a compilation and synthesis report on capacity-building activities, other issues required more negotiation. Parties then discussed whether and when to organize an in-session workshop, disagreeing on South Africa 92s proposal that countries that are not able to participate in the workshop could make submissions to it. With delegates unable to reach an agreement during their last scheduled contact group meeting at SBI 24, they agreed to continue informal consultations on Wednesday evening. However, further talks did not prove successful, and delegates agreed to forward the issue to the SBI Chair, recommending that it be sent to SBI 25 for consideration.

In the evening, draft AWG conclusions on planning of future work were introduced. As of 11:50 pm, some progress was reported on 93keeping 94 the list of topics during small group talks, and informal consultations in a larger group were expected to resume. 

 Contact groups and informal consultations continued throughout Wednesday on issues such as adaptation, the Adaptation Fund, arrangements for intergovernmental meetings, the Brazilian proposal, capacity building, the Mauritius Strategy on small island developing States, privileges and immunities, and technology transfer. In addition, the AWG convened for informal discussions throughout the day and into the night.

 

  On COP 12 and COP/MOP 2, discussions focused on the time that should be set for ending evening sessions. The UMBRELLA GROUP and the G-77/CHINA preferred setting an earlier time, whereas the EU preferred a more 93flexible 94 arrangement that would allow for later meetings. The final formulation recommends that meetings should normally end at 6:00 pm but could extend until 9:00 pm under 93exceptional circumstances. 94 On future sessions, the EU objected to text proposed by the US recommending that meetings be held 93during normal United Nations Headquarters working hours 94 (which are 10:00 am to 6:00 pm, with a two hour break for lunch). The US also proposed a recommendation that sessions of the subsidiary bodies and workshops be scheduled 93so as to minimize weekend travel wherever possible. 94 This was opposed by the EU and some developing countries, while AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN favored its inclusion. The final compromise resulted in deletion of the text on weekend travel, and amendment of the sentence on UN hours, so that the SBI 93encouraged 94 (rather than 93recommended 94) that Convention and Protocol meetings should be held during UN Headquarters 92 hours 93whenever possible. 94  

 ARRANGEMENTS FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL MEETINGS: On Wednesday morning, the contact group completed its work after making a number of revisions to the Chairs\' draft text. This text was agreed following discussions on the work schedule and organization of COP 12, COP/MOP 2 and future meetings, and on the status of observer parties to the Protocol. 


 

    Published by the     International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD)


  Spanish Version



  PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES:  Delegates met informally and in a contact group in the morning to consider draft SBI conclusions and a decision. The discussions included whether the conclusions should focus on immunities only, or both privileges and immunities. Agreement was reached on draft conclusions and the contact group concluded its work. Delegates also agreed that the draft decision text will remain as a non-paper to inform further discussions at SB 25.


  French Version

  Delegates also discussed text reviewing the arrangement/organization of COP 11 and COP/MOP 1, including whether these events should serve as a framework for future sessions. The US pointed out that such arrangements should be reviewed periodically, and delegates agreed that COP/MOP 1 and COP 11 should serve as the framework for COP/MOP 2 and COP 12, but that later sessions should not be referenced.

  Regarding the status of UNFCCC parties at Protocol informal consultations, delegates were unable to agree on a precise legal position on their status, with views expressed by the EU on one side and AUSTRALIA and the US on the other. Parties agreed not to refer specifically to this issue in the text, noting orally that informal talks under the Protocol should be guided by the 93concept of inclusiveness, 94 with one party suggesting that the issue could be revisited if problems arise. 
