INDONESIA highlighted the importance of: monitoring and evaluating technology transfer, minimizing dumping of inefficient technologies, and developing a clearinghouse for technology transfer.
Addressing the AOSIS proposal on length of the commitment period in option B, she emphasized that the issue is not addressed in Annex B and therefore requires a consequential amendment.
BOLIVIA highlighted the “Days of Citizen Participation” event, held from 16-18 September, bringing together 3000 representatives of the Andean Community of Nations.
 PERU said criteria should be developed to evaluate policies and measures.
INDONESIA said the committee should formulate recommendations to the CMA, in light of national circumstances.
The G-77/CHINA introduced the Group 92s views on the Co-Chairs 92 draft decision, noting, inter alia, that the SCCF should be financed from new and additional funds, and that the funding level of the SCCF should match that of the GEF 92s climate change focal area.
BARBADOS explained that a draft decision had been proposed in Durban that included only a post-2020 outlook but the most vulnerable countries had rejected this proposal.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, stressed that the Green Climate Fund must not become an “empty basket” of false promises and called on developed countries to contribute with 1.5% of their GDP.
The US stressed the need to work on in-country capacities, build strong partnerships with local stakeholders and incorporate capacity building in national strategies.
SWITZERLAND said forest governance needs to be more fully considered.
On \t\tfactoring out, the US and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA and AOSIS, \t\twelcomed an alternative proposal by AUSTRALIA and CANADA that addresses \t\tLULUCF issues broadly.
JAPAN, opposed by CHINA and INDONESIA, supported using ODA funding for the CDM.
NORWAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the US, said this was not realistic.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that capacity building be a continuous, integrative and comprehensive process implemented within a specific time frame and based on country priorities.
While acknowledging efforts by developing countries to address their emissions, JAPAN pointed to the need for further participation in the future.
The G-77/CHINA said information sharing should focus on the adverse effects of P&amp;Ms on developing countries.
The EU and Tuvalu noted gaps in existing data, and stressed data as a crucial input to the negotiating process.
The EU called for accelerating technical discussions, achieving progress on all items and focusing on mandated issues of the work programme.
SENEGAL suggested involving the financial sector, sensitizing the public and decision-makers and training developing country officials.
AOSIS emphasized, inter alia: increasing the mitigation ambition of all parties; a work programme on loss and damage; robust review of the long-term global goal; full “institutionalization” of the Adaptation Committee; and adoption of a new legally-binding agreement as the ultimate goal.
SAUDI ARABIA said such a plan should not be developed until climate change impacts on developing countries are elaborated and scientific uncertainties are minimized.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed, inter alia, that: the Secretariat\'s analytical framework combine consideration of adverse effects and impacts; SBI form a permanent committee on implementation of Articles 4.8 and 4.9; COP-4 request information from Annex I Parties on policies and measures, fossil fuel imports during the first commitment period and estimated effects on other imports from developing countries; and processes not discriminate against any country clusters identified in Articles 4.8 and 4.9.
MICRONESIA and TUVALU stressed the aviation and maritime sectors’ potential for generating revenue for adaptation.
SUDAN suggested parties identify those paragraphs they are ready to work on, with the understanding that all paragraphs should be reflected on at this session.
The US called for a process to regularly report on lessons learned.
On composition of the executive committee, the US, Australia, Mexico, Belgium, Brazil, Argentina, and Sudan questioned the inclusion of external members.
In the ensuing discussion, AUSTRALIA expressed doubt that a reconstruction effort of current climate change models was necessary.
URUGUAY highlighted the possible impact of P&amp;Ms on developing countries.
 NEW ZEALAND reiterated the importance of analyses and assessments and said that analytic work will need to done throughout the AGBM process but could be emphasized less at a later stage.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and INDIA said they would allow provision of supplementary information based on the documents.
AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened the resumed session on Saturday, 1 October, and called on parties to work on developing draft decision text on all elements under the AWG-LCA.
CHINA underscored the need to define the nature of technology transfer in the UNFCCC context.
On national registries, the US identified the importance of the discussions on the mechanisms for the work in this group.
AOSIS was concerned that the inclusion of land-use change in national inventories may allow countries to recalculate their inventories and 93erase 94 the bulk of what was achieved at Kyoto.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said EITs must be discussed in the broader context of the Convention.
CHINA highlighted implementation, commitment and equity gaps.
JAPAN opposed the draft MOU approved by the GEF Council.
The twelfth session of the AWG-LCA opened on 4 October 2010, chaired by Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe (Zimbabwe), with Dan Reifsnyder (US) as the Vice-Chair and Teodora Obradovic-Grncarovska (Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) as the Rapporteur.
Clarifying her understanding of differentiation, Australia, with the EU, noted that a genuine aggregate review should include all parties.
AUSTRALIA said the bulk of ESTs are privately developed and owned.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to continue working through a smaller group with higher-level representation.
On the status of negotiations, several delegates, including SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, QATAR and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said equal progress must be made on all issues, and the Buenos Aires Plan of Action (BAPA) should be achieved as a complete package.
The EU noted significant areas of convergence among Parties but said a ceiling on the use of mechanisms has to be defined.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA reiterated its proposal for carbon credits for mitigation, noted its similarity to the CDM, and said a share of proceeds could be allocated to finance adaptation.
On whether to consider sectors whose emissions can be attributed to a particular country, sectors where emissions cannot be attributed, or both, the EU and NORWAY supported considering both, while SAUDI ARABIA stated that sectors that go beyond national borders should not be addressed.
NORWAY said a net-net approach could be acceptable.
JAPAN, supported by the US, proposed a separate informal session to discuss the revised guidelines.
The EU noted the table does not include a just transition to low GHG economies, and, with INDIA, gender equality.
INDONESIA said the text was a good basis for conveying an action-oriented message.
CANADA highlighted the Climate and Clean Air Coalition.
 Annex I Expert Group Chair Ian Pickard (UK) reported on studies, carried out in cooperation with OECD and IEA, on carbon and energy taxation, P&amp;Ms to encourage innovation in transport and technology and international greenhouse gas emissions trading.
PARAGUAY, COLOMBIA and others supported text on engagement of indigenous peoples.
BRAZIL proposed adding references to the Doha Amendment and the annual US$100 billion goal.
BOTSWANA stated that national communications are not useful in the long run if the data is not comparable.
The EU and MEXICO said gender equality and human rights should be added.
On frequency of reporting and financial and technical support, the G-77/CHINA said further implementation must be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
CHINA said he had been unable to take part in the consultations, and proposed several substantive amendments.
The PHILIPPINES expressed dismay that a small number of "essential" Parties were holding up the process and attempting to "skew the rules in their favor," which he said would result in increases rather than cuts in their emissions.
France, on behalf of the EU, supported by Canada and others, endorsed the SBSTA"s two technical advisory panels.
BARBADOS said funding should not be conditional on the development of national adaptation plans.
Kiribati, for AOSIS, stressed the need for information dissemination reflecting the low level of connectivity in small island developing states (SIDS) and streamlined and simplified funding mechanisms.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said the framework could feature in both the agreement and a COP decision, the former explaining “the what” and the latter “the how.”
INDONESIA said he had no objection to using existing institutions if they are reformed and, with BANGLADESH, preferred the establishment of a flexible and efficient single fund with multiple windows.
NEW ZEALAND proposed examining complementary sectoral targets and CANADA preferred early discussions on sectoral approaches.
On homework, ARGENTINA suggested considering a workshop, and with INDIA, called for submissions.
  As the COP Presidency, MEXICO reported on activities to facilitate further negotiations, including: a ministerial meeting in March on implementing the Cancun Agreements; informal meetings with observer groups; the first meeting of the Transitional Committee for the Design of the Green Climate Fund in April; and a Ministerial dialogue on adaptation, co-hosted with South Africa, in May.
SAUDI ARABIA pointed to uncertainties in REDD+ activities and called for their equal treatment with other mitigation activities, such as CCS.
MAURITIUS asked for computer technology to enhance developing country participation in the IPCC and increase public awareness of the results of the SAR.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted his proposal that new commitments of Parties do not cancel, reconsider or prolong commitments adopted by Annex I Parties for the period before the year 2000.
AUSTRALIA introduced their proposal for the post-2012 financial architecture, comprising a facilitative platform operated by the UNFCCC Secretariat, which would link funding to different actions and enable contributors and recipients to navigate new funding arrangements.
Speaking for several developing countries, IRAN asked for a postponement of the discussion until COP-6, and ARGENTINA added that the options included were unacceptable.
CROATIA stressed the importance of resolving the issue of its special circumstances under UNFCCC Article 4.6 (special circumstances of EITs) and called for the continuation of informal negotiations on the issue.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the UNFCCC as the legitimate channel for the regime’s full implementation and, with the PHILIPPINES, underscored the Convention as providing the context and principles of any related decisions.
He further announced the EU and its Member States intend to deposit their instruments of ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol by the end of 2017.
On registries, INDIA, opposed by the US, argued that there was no need for a separate addendum.
The US noted the need for practical experience with the new reporting guidance and urged taking a decision on the CRF as soon as possible.
Supported by the US, WGIII Vice Chair Reisinger, the Marshall Islands, Germany, and Jamaica, she called for removing this paragraph in the decision and instead referring to a comparison with 2     c2 b0C or higher in the outline, on the relevant bullets on impacts and emissions pathways.
Regarding the nature of the EU energy efficiency target, he noted that the EU Heads of State have recently signaled their intention to meet the target and the European Commission will assess in 2012 the need for legislation to implement it.
El Salvador, on behalf of the Central American Integration System (SICA), underscored the need for a holistic approach to REDD+ that considers the multifunctional role of forests and ecosystem services.
The EU emphasized the need \t\tto operationalize the compliance system and proposed its adoption by a \t\tCOP/MOP 1 decision, after which an amendment could be considered.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against prioritizing some issues over others.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, regretted that only 25% of the LDCs’ needs identified in national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) have received support.
JAPAN said that the SBSTA should focus on technology identification, assessment and development, rather than technology transfer.
South Africa, for BASIC, stressed that 2012 should focus on the Kyoto Protocol amendment, the adoption of an agreed outcome under the AWG-LCA, and the launching of the Durban Platform.
AUSTRALIA and other Annex I Parties, as well as the EU, put forward the documents they had produced for the contact group.
GHANA identified challenges with accessing funding, highlighting uncoordinated support and lack of a national registry of REDD+ actions and support.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, proposed a template as a flexible tool to capture information on pledges, including on sectors, metrics, gases and timeframes covered.
Reporting on relevant initiatives, SOUTH AFRICA highlighted an informal ministerial meeting in Bonn, Germany, in May 2012.
In the decision on further guidance on the operation of the LDC Fund (FCCC/CP/2003/L.9), the COP decides to adopt the further guidance to an entity entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism of the UNFCCC for the operation of the LDC Fund.
TURKEY called for flexibility in a future regime to account for the dynamic nature of national circumstances.
TUVALU called for parties to agree on policy approaches on capacity building for REDD, guidelines for addressing governance issues and a coordinated approach among institutions.
TUVALU said the impacts should be shown with absolute tonnage rather than percentages and also requested clarity on the assumptions used in the presentation.
The EU welcomed progress, especially related to, inter alia: agriculture; the gender action plan; and the focus on oceans in the conclusions on research and systemic observation.
The US noted that the proposed list of “blocks” of text could be further consolidated.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, identified a need for automatic sanctions.
He highlighted the importance of adaptation, financing, technology and capacity building support, and underlined the need for contributions to the LDC Fund to finance countries’ most immediate adaptation needs.
BELIZE proposed the establishment of a "technology development expert group."
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported open and transparent negotiations on the Chair’s draft text.
MEXICO noted a technology fund as part of his country’s green fund proposal.
Opposed by the US, the EU then proposed two new options, which requested Parties to decide on only one instead of two indicative scales.
The US highlighted the need for broad participation and ambitious contributions by parties.
NORWAY and SWITZERLAND stressed the need to address governance issues and, with BOLIVIA, highlighted the need to incorporate indigenous peoples.
Participants also agreed to a US proposal to add assets to a list of items that may be affected by increased risks.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the current formulation of the paragraph on the basis would introduce conditionalities and standards.
The US proposed starting with the issues identified in FCCC Article 3.4.
On the \t\tpre-sessional workshop, the EU and Canada were in favor of holding a \t\tforum where Parties could exchange their views on lessons learned from \t\tmitigation workshops and future steps to take under this agenda item.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION pointed out that his proposal is in line with the Rules of Procedure.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated the need to take all submissions into consideration.
He said EIT parties provided clarification on their proposed draft decision regarding when the transition was expected to be completed, as well as the implications for the Convention.
HUNGARY proposed new "institutional capacity."
Argentina, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for a balanced and ambitious outcome in Durban in accordance with provisions and principles of the Convention, especially the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
TANZANIA opposed inclusion of sinks at this time, citing issues of permanence, leakage and sovereignty.
The EIG welcomed discussions on how IPCC assessments can inform the global stocktake, and suggested “closely linking, if not integrating” the work on the 2013-2015 review and the global stocktake.
The US said that all countries face adaptation challenges.
On the annual or periodic reporting and review of Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects), Co-Chair Plume said the Co-Chairs would, with the participation of Saudi Arabia, the US and EU, consult with the Co-Chairs of the contact group on adverse effects and explain the difficulties in completing the guidelines without the latter group having finished its work.
BRAZIL, the EU, the LDCs, NORWAY, ARGENTINA, INDONESIA, MALAYSIA, ECUADOR and COLOMBIA called for the inclusion of a temperature goal.
On appeals, the EU, Micronesia and Samoa, opposed by New Zealand, doubted their necessity, since it would delay the process and merely afford Parties the opportunity to have their case heard twice.
On Screening, SWITZERLAND stressed the need to identify criteria and, in order to help delegates get a clear view of the flow of information under the review and compliance processes, to prepare a flow chart.
The PHILIPPINES urged timely and \t\tconsistent delivery of resources, enhanced systems of technology \t\ttransfer and capacity building.
He noted strong growth in green economy-related jobs in the EU despite the recession, and underscored the importance of education and skills development.
SWITZERLAND underscored the need for a strong enabling environment, a blend of public and private sources, and domestic and multilateral finance for a low-carbon future.
AUSTRALIA noted that the amendment would possibly require complex provisions on its entry into force, linking it to the AWG-LCA’s outcome.
It also proposes a contingency budget for conference servicing amounting to US$5.96 million, in case the UN General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities from the UN regular budget.
The COOK ISLANDS, for AOSIS, stressed that the special needs of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) should be reflected in the synthesis report.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the importance of: increased ambition on mid-term reductions; inclusion of emissions from the international aviation and maritime transport sectors; fast-track and long-term financing that includes the private sector and carbon markets; and action on a performance-based mechanism for REDD.
The US suggested moving paragraph 79 on guiding principles under contributions/commitments/actions, with Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA noting its proposal, option 5, belongs under guiding principles.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, supported adoption of the SAR and noted the conclusion that SIDS are among the most vulnerable to climate change.
The US noted the lack of differentiation among parties in the disarmament treaty referred to by Brazil.
The EU included carbon markets.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said that agreement on a second commitment period is a top priority that requires movement away from the precondition that all parties take on responsibilities.
BRAZIL, with ECUADOR, called for addressing protectionist trade measures, including prohibiting unilateral climate-related trade measures, such as tariffs or non-tariff fiscal measures applied at the border.
Indicating readiness to work with the texts, the EU noted that seeing bridging proposals in a textual context was helpful.
On an alternative paragraph inviting the Secretariat to enhance existing practices for the facilitation of non-party stakeholder participation, parties, including ECUADOR, the RUSSIA FEDERATION and the US, expressed diverging views.
CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, said important decisions sometimes have to be reiterated until they are implemented.
However, AOSIS expressed concerns \t\tabout CCS as a CDM activity, with JAMAICA noting many uncertainties with \t\trespect to this technology and that its limited geographical application \t\twould exclude many countries.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that the revised negotiating text must be developed by parties rather than the Chair and Secretariat.
JAPAN said a sectoral approach should involve: analyzing sectoral emissions; aggregating the greenhouse gas reduction potential of sectors and determining reduction targets for developed countries; and disseminating best available technologies to promote measurable, reportable and verifiable (MRV) actions in developing countries.
BRAZIL said that developed countries want to both differentiate between developing countries and establish targets for them without any commensurate commitment to actual reductions themselves.
KUWAIT noted the importance of identifying the areas of concern for an MCP and said that many of the issues presented here fall under existing bodies.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for: clarity and further guidance on the mode of work, including promoting consistency across facilitated groups; identification of key themes and concepts; and a party-driven process.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA and Malawi, for the LDCs, suggested that paragraphs related to deforestation and forest degradation are better addressed under discussions on REDD.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS supported this approach, suggesting that parties decide later in the week whether to capture that work in a document.
The EU proposed combining paragraphs on identifying adverse effects and impacts with those on the needs and concerns.
The US commented that several paragraphs of the text addressed Article 12 more directly than Article 3.3 and 3.4.
VENEZUELA expressed concern with the UNFCCC Executive Secretary’s declarations made at other forums regarding carbon capture and storage.
VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, and KUWAIT objected to adopting incomplete rules.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SWITZERLAND, the US and the EU, proposed considering “creative ways” of ensuring that work progresses productively.
 JAPAN said that national communications by all Parties are as important as strengthening Article 4.2 (a) and (b).
New Zealand, supported by Ireland, Japan, the US, Spain, China, Switzerland and Slovenia, suggested an expert meeting as a first step, with no time pressure to produce anything before the UNFCCC COP in Paris in 2015.
Regarding guidance for accounting, many countries called for building on existing rules, with AILAC and NORWAY calling for specific rules on land use.
AWG-LCA Chair Tayeb, supported by ALGERIA, the PHILIPPINES, INDONESIA, SAUDI ARABIA, VENEZUELA and EGYPT, proposed continuing discussions in an informal group and invited parties to address issues in a more focused manner during the next meeting.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, cautioned against overlapping institutions, saying the technology and adaptation mechanisms should integrate capacity building, but options for a capacity-building mechanism should be kept open.
The European Union (EU), supported by Luxembourg, argued that including such a generic qualifier in the introduction to an IPCC report would be unusual, noting that if no literature exists on a subject, it cannot be assessed.
SWITZERLAND and NEW ZEALAND said adoption should be through a COP-6 decision adopting an agreement becoming an integral part of the Protocol, while the EU favored the option whereby the agreement would be adopted at COP-7.
CHINA called for all other Annex I countries to propose QELROs with time frames as the EU has done.
The EU noted its concern that only six out of twenty-one in-depth review reports have been finalized.
On Tuesday, 2 December, the EU urged Parties to submit reports to the Secretariat on demonstrable progress, and asked SBSTA to identify priority activities and develop a work programme on good practices.
The US proposed amending the decision to reflect the differing legal status of the Convention and the Protocol.
AOSIS presented on assessing the scale of the ambition gap through common accounting rules and expressed concern that more effort is needed for a number of countries to meet their current pledges.
Emphasizing that adaptation cannot be measured and quantified, CANADA did not support linkages between the long-term temperature limit, the need for support and adaptation.
CANADA and NORWAY noted their preference for Option A, saying the uncertainties are overdrawn.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA identified the need for new market mechanisms to support low-carbon economies, and underscored the importance of harmonization of new mechanisms with the existing ones.
OPEC noted that many oil exporting countries are also gas exporting countries, meaning the impact on these economies would be even greater.
TUVALU requested clarity on the process moving forward and specifics on how consultations would be conducted.
The EU called for clarifying, in Cancun, that the intention is to work towards a legally-binding outcome under the AWG-LCA.
The EU outlined three meanings: bottom-up approaches as an analytical tool to set national targets; cooperative sectoral targets in developing countries without crediting; and sectoral crediting and trading.
INDONESIA stated that discussion of deforestation drivers, safeguards and forest reference emission levels should account for national development priorities, circumstances and capabilities.
AOSIS stressed an immediate reduction in emissions of 50-80%.
BOLIVIA emphasized technology originating from indigenous peoples and local communities.
On Article 3.14, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by several other developing countries, said it referred only to actions by Annex I Parties and indicated that it was inappropriate to suggest that non-Annex I Parties had obligations under this Article.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, suggested developing reporting guidelines for initiatives and actors outside the Convention.
SWITZERLAND called for a separate paragraph on gender and human rights.
INDIA mentioned several other sources of information available, including databases and newsletters, and highlighted the importance of electronic information technology.
Belize, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), highlighted that the best available science requires stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations as far below 350 ppm as possible and limiting temperature increase to below 1.5°C, stressing that 2°C is inconsistent with the Convention’s precautionary approach.
OPEC countries, China and others continued to suggest that consideration of a protocol or structure was premature before additional analysis and assessment.
AUSTRALIA requested an update on AWG-KP Chair Ashe’s consultations on legal matters and noted the centrality of clarifying legal options on the rules.
EGYPT underscored the need for an adaptation programme that addresses the adverse impacts of climate change in the agricultural sector.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, proposed including a template for understanding underlying assumptions for NAMAs.
BRAZIL emphasized the need for action and that the section must be seen in conjunction with financing.
KENYA recommended that policies and measures be market-driven.
The US addressed concerns over US domestic climate politics, declaring that “success in Cancún does not hinge on US legislation.”
The EU emphasized that it “stands firmly behind the Protocol and is implementing it,” and already has legislation in place to implement their target of a 20% emission reduction from 1990 levels by 2020.
The spin-off groups were co-facilitated by Leon Charles (Grenada) and Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and focused on: the need to consider the transformation of pledges into QELROs; carryover of surplus AAUs; and whether to discuss option B (consequential amendments).
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND also favored the use of unadjusted figures.
The US and the EU stressed the need to incorporate the additional methodological issues raised by the Kyoto Protocol into the existing guidelines to enhance understanding of the three new gases under the Kyoto Protocol.
 The US, supported by GERMANY, proposed that an additional two weeks be requested.
On the Secretariat e2 80 99s proposal to combine, in paragraph 215 on signature, ratification approval and accession, sub-paragraphs 3 and 4 on actions by regional economic integration organizations and on groups of parties, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the EU said the proposal mixes concepts and does not reduce the length of the text.
BRAZIL stressed the need to resolve pending \t\tmatters in the 2006 Guidelines before proceeding to the Overview \t\tChapter.
AILAC called for protecting environmental integrity and human rights, and support for developing countries to implement their NDCs.
UGANDA said funding for capacity building should be additional to ODA.
On the application of differentiation in the context of time frames, BRAZIL, supported by INDIA, said the application of differentiation would depend on the context of aggregate or individual review/assessment.
BENIN \t\temphasized the importance of sustainable development, poverty \t\talleviation and adaptation for LDCs.
In closing, ARGENTINA announced its offer to host COP-10 in Buenos Aires.
Norway stressed the importance \t\t\tclarifying risk related to overshoot scenarios, and the UK cautioned \t\t\tagainst mentioning them.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the issue as one of the four pillars of the Bali Action Plan and called for further discussions, in particular on IPRs.
Reporting on intersessional meetings, MEXICO presented on efforts being undertaken to ensure a successful meeting in Cancún and highlighted the informal ministrial meeting on 20-21 May focusing on financing and attended by Mexican President Felipe Calderón and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed a backward-looking review as well as a forward-looking one covering existing and future commitments on mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
The G-77/CHINA further explained that paragraphs 86, 87 and 88 on assessment and review contain the group’s proposals.
Regarding which additional activities should be included under Protocol Article 3.4, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said activities should be defined broadly and based on national circumstances.
 Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) co-facilitated the group.
Informal consultations were conducted by Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and the COP/MOP adopted the decision on 18 December.
IRAQ said sectors other than energy have a greater potential for emission reduction.
JAPAN expressed preference for expressing QELROs as absolute emission reductions and also expressing them with reference to different years, including 1990.
GRENADA said parties should first consider what needs to be tracked, followed by what would be eligible for use towards meeting emission reductions targets.
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN and others, said the consolidated text was not an appropriate basis for contact group discussion, and proposed revisiting the compilation of Parties 92 views.
CHILE and COLOMBIA described ongoing efforts toward their initial national communications.
AOSIS said the 17-25% pledged by Annex I parties would result in effective emission reductions of only 1-7%.
During discussions, the US, Switzerland, Germany, the UK and Mali supported establishing the sub-committee.
The US said the list of options provided a reasonable reflection of multiple ideas that could be taken forward.
The EU also proposed retaining reference to preventing disputes from arising and finding solutions.
On promoting co-benefits for CDM projects, BRAZIL, INDIA, the PHILIPPINES and others supported taking no decision, while JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and others supported addressing co-benefits.
Regarding discussion on financing for the readiness activities phase, AUSTRALIA and CANADA proposed addressing commonalities in the objectives.
CANADA, while accepting the centrality of FCCC Article 3 (Principles), cautioned against going too far into the nature and scope.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported by TUVALU, suggested differentiating between enabling activities and implementation, indicating that emphasis should be on actions rather than process or promotion.
CANADA stressed the need to build on the \t\tmomentum created by the Dialogue and launch a process in Bali to \t\testablish a broad and comprehensive framework involving all Convention \t\tparties.
NORWAY identified a national reduction target of 30% from 1990 levels by 2020.
  Progress on the implementation of activities under decision 5/CP.7: The EU, US and AUSTRALIA noted activities that have taken place to implement decision 5/CP.7, including workshops and the third GEF replenishment, and welcomed an exchange of views on this issue during COP-9.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, said adaptation finance should be considered under means of implementation and that activities relating to migration and displacement due to climate-related events should be emphasized.
NORWAY said the text forms a good basis for anchoring the Copenhagen Accord in a formal and legally-binding agreement, but noted that issues that require further development include market-based mechanisms, MRV and shipping and aviation emissions.
INDIA, with the G-77/CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and SUDAN requested the option for new institutional arrangements be moved to Part 1 of the Tool on the agreement.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, stated that “all international obligations” must be within the scope of the committee.
The consultations adjourned so that the G-77 could review the EU comments.
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), stressed the need for full substantive discussion on the item and the EUROPEAN UNION (EU) called for compilation and synthesis of information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
COSTA RICA said the G-77/China was working to produce a joint position.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, ARGENTINA and COLOMBIA, preferred the option of not taking a decision on the issue.
CHINA, INDONESIA and INDIA urged faster progress on new Annex I emissions targets.
INDIA emphasized the need for a set of common guidelines on what constitutes climate change financing and verification of support by a third party.
NORWAY called for further clarity on information and reporting systems and the results achieved by climate finance.
IRAN and BURKINA FASO called for language on technology transfer and provision of financial resources in the new legal instrument.
The US, supported by CANADA, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN, emphasized that work on response measures should not hamper effective mitigation efforts.
On effective participation, the US objected to the manner in which the CDM Executive Board was implementing the rules relating to the participation of observers.
SAMOA, speaking for AOSIS, said the stock taking exercise is set for SB-17.
The US, supported by Samoa, suggested that the Secretariat develop terms of reference (TOR), referring to adverse effects, for future workshops in accordance with decision 13/CP.7.
AUSTRALIA elaborated on his country’s clean energy future package and stressed the need to reinforce the link between domestic and international action.
Kiribati, the UK, Denmark, Belgium and Norway opposed, and supported having it as a stand-alone topic.
SAUDI ARABIA \t\thighlighted integrating economic diversification with sustainable \t\tdevelopment efforts.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, called for: new and additional financial resources; direct and easy access; and support for setting up national implementing entities.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU requested information on Turkey\'s approach to responsibilities.
MALAYSIA and others stressed that the Synthesis Report should not contain new information, and reflect a true synthesis of the Working Group reports, as well as the special reports.
AUSTRALIA said biennial reports should “dovetail” with existing national GHG inventory processes and should be submitted starting in 2013.
 During afternoon informal consultations on the financial mechanism, parties addressed the implementation of the remaining elements of the LDC work programme and guidance to the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
Barbados, for AOSIS, expressed willingness to consider more frequent communication of certain issues like GHG inventories, and suggested different time tables for different aspects of national communications.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress with negotiations on the scale of Annex I parties’ emission reductions and stressed that the adoption of new Annex I emission reduction targets is a legal obligation.
SBI welcomes \t\tefforts to cooperate with the LDC Expert Group and the Expert Group on \t\tTechnology Transfer, as well as the offer by Panama to host the first \t\thands-on training workshop on greenhouse gas inventories.
 On scope and key issues, a number of countries, including Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the nationally-determined nature of NDCs.
The EU noted that guidelines already exist for submission of Annex I national communications every four years, but said this does not preempt discussion on the frequency of reporting in other groups.
CHINA, with JORDAN, suggested focus on how to increase international support to enhance action.
On provision of financial and technical support for the submission of views on experiences with the GEF and its implementing agencies, the EU questioned the regularity of such submissions.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs and Cook Islands, for AOSIS, with New Zealand, Canada and Norway, stressed that impacts of response measures must not be included in the adaptation chapter.
CAPACITY BUILDING: Delegates considered the co-chair 92s draft proposal on a draft decision on capacity building based on the G-77/CHINA 92s written proposal and integrating submissions from the EU and the Umbrella Group.
The EU expressed surprise with the discussion observing that he had assumed that this decision was to be adopted as part of the Durban package.
The G-77/CHINA urged the same rigor for JI as for CDM.
  The G-77/CHINA said developed countries should take the lead in combating climate change.
The US emphasized \t\tstocktaking and assessments, sharing of experiences, and a sectoral \t\tapproach.
PERU underlined cost implications associated with best practices.
AOSIS regretted that only four Annex I Parties will reach 1990 levels in light of the SAR.
SWITZERLAND suggested developing a scoping paper addressing topics such as reporting and review, and methodological issues.
The EU highlighted the importance of transition and continuity of rules, institutions and mechanisms.
Following agreement on the recommendations of the workshop late on Friday afternoon, Luis G ef bf bdmez-Echeverri, UNFCCC Secretariat, made his closing remarks, thanking the Government of the Philippines, UNDP Philippines, the US, Spain and Switzerland, and APN, as well as the GEF and other multilateral and bilateral institutions.
Tuvalu, the EU, China, Belarus, Saudi Arabia and others urged continuing consultations.
The US indicated that Decision 2/CP.17 (Outcome of the work of the AWG-LCA) gives the group a mandate for focused discussions on mitigation.
TANZANIA highlighted the potential for other innovative market mechanisms.
JAPAN suggested that work should be carried out in light of the best available scientific information, and that the SBSTA and SBI should play important roles.
Chile and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), stressed the need to improve coordination among the UNFCCC, ICAO, and IMO to avoid double counting and to safeguard environmental integrity.
Parties considered several proposals on the operation and design of the new fund, including the EU proposal, which envisages: a complementary fund to existing institutions or mechanisms; possibly with different thematic windows; the World Bank as a trustee; and the establishment of an ad hoc committee to design the fund.
He explained that, since the issuance of this document, Honduras, for AILAC, Iran, for the Asia-Pacific States, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, had proposed new agenda items, each on the special needs and special circumstances of developing countries in their respective groups or regions.
With AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, the US proposed identifying what should go in the agreement and what should go in decisions.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed clarity, transparency and understanding as the main criteria, and noted his country’s INDC is centered on adaptation and economic diversification with mitigation co-benefits.
 ARGENTINA noted there was no communication from the EU listed in the document.
SWITZERLAND supported the continuation of the CDM while citing specific types of projects requiring further work on additionality and environmental integrity.
\t\tInformal discussions focused on divergent interpretations of the \t\tannexes, and agreement was reached when the EU conceded that parties \t\tshould invite the Executive Board to revisit the issue, and deal with \t\trelevant project proposals on a case-by-case basis in the interim.
JAPAN and CANADA stressed the importance of the technical summary of the SED report.
The EU warned that reduction goals could be weakened depending on the rules adopted for LULUCF, carbon credits and bunker fuels.
SAUDI ARABIA said the workshop should also address 93wrong 94 practices.
GHANA called for regional workshops to enhance developing country understanding of the IPCC report.
Belize, for AOSIS, said that a distinction between plans and strategies, and NAMAs, should be maintained.
El Salvador and CARICOM, opposed by Japan, suggested the Secretariat draft a report assessing the adequacy and transparency of INDCs.
She said financing provided through existing institutions outside the Convention has been inadequate and, with BANGLADESH, highlighted the need for a compliance mechanism for monitoring how developed countries implement their financial commitments.
The US explained that his country’s vision is different from the Protocol and builds on the Convention’s commitments and obligations that are common for all parties.
BANGLADESH noted the need to clearly define NAMAs and ways to recognize unilateral NAMAs.
EGYPT called for clarity on LULUCF, AAUs and other issues.
NORWAY and the EU opposed, saying the content and context of the paragraphs are different.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern at the pace of the Article 6 discussions and welcomed progress on agriculture.
AUSTRIA and NORWAY \t\tsupported BRAZIL 92s reservation on estimates from flooded lands and \t\tcautioned against possible inconsistencies in the methodologies when \t\tused at the project level.
The US provided an overview of possible financial tools, including: up-front or ex-post financing, such as grants and loans; and risk-reducing tools, including commercial and political risk insurance.
The PHILIPPINES and CHINA proposed forming an open- ended group, but cautioned that limiting the size could also limit equitable geographical distribution.
INDIA expressed concern that low-carbon development plans constitute a way of seeking international review of non-Annex I NAMAs.
BHUTAN emphasized the need for active participation by the least developed countries (LDCs), suggesting their exemption from an adaptation surcharge.
\t\tThe US, Canada, India and others objected to EU-proposed text addressing \t\tclimate change and sea-level rise in the context of the Millennium \t\tReview in September 2005.
On implementation, the EU highlighted the importance of capitalizing on existing institutions and processes.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that new requests for reductions by his country were premature.
CANADA supported discussing areas of disagreement.
India suggested adding a reference to Articles 4.3, 4.5 and 4.7 in paragraph 7 to emphasize the importance of technology transfer, but the UK and the US did not want to reference any articles.
INDIA said it was considering the possibility of hosting COP-8.
INDIA cautioned against the use of terms that are not contained in the Protocol, such as "AAUs," and said the JWG should not prejudge the outcome of the work undertaken by the contact group on mechanisms.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the SAR does not yet provide sufficient policy information.
The EU said the LEG should focus on strategic activities where it has a comparative advantage.
The EU said its experiences with the linkage were positive and welcomed its continuation.
On flow, AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, the US and Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested placing paragraphs on contributions under the legal agreement before those on the scale of resources.
In his draft report of AGBM-4 (FCCC/AGBM/1996/L.2), Rapporteur Dan Reifsnyder (US) reported that the AGBM Chair Ra ef bf bdl Estrada- Oyuela (Argentina) recalled, at the opening meeting on 11 July, that Parties are now halfway through the preparation period a protocol or other legal instrument.
SAUDI ARABIA bracketed a US proposal to reference an AGBM roundtable and the IPCC Oslo workshop on the economic impacts of Annex I actions on all countries.
Opening the resumed AWG-LCA 14, Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) noted the agenda adopted in Bangkok (FCCC/AWGLCA/2011/5) will provide the structure and scope of work for the AWG-LCA and includes both work to implement Decision 1/CP.16 (outcome of the AWG-LCA’s work) and issues that remain unresolved.
CANADA, the SEYCHELLES and others expressed concern at further changes that might dilute the text.
The US said the text needed further consideration and that, because of ongoing negotiations under the ADP, the US would not be “in a position to adopt the decision text.”
SAUDI ARABIA said form should follow content and opposed discussing any proposals in detail.
During the Summit, government representatives committed to a series of national actions on climate change and pledged a total of US$2.3 billion to the Green Climate Fund.
SOUTH AFRICA requested a new chapter in the text on how Annex I countries will implement their targets for 2020, what the compliance system will look like, and how MRV will be ensured.
The UK accepted replacing food production with key drivers of global change and parties agreed.
c2 a0 SWITZERLAND called for an agreement that: brings in everybody; develops and strengthens existing institutions; and includes rules on mitigation, adaptation and finance that address each area according to its specific needs.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed that their possible reduction range was not intended for the Protocol and that it was contingent on the outcome of the overall negotiations.
Australia, Canada, the EU, New Zealand and Singapore preferred specifying arrangements for individuals serving on constituted bodies and other entities established under the UNFCCC and not only under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US proposed that the Panel, inter \t\talia, reaffirm the IPCC ef bf bds core function as scientific assessment, \t\tcatalyze the independent development of scenarios within the climate \t\tmodelling community, and request that the TGICA, in coordination with \t\tthe Co-Chairs of the Working Groups, organize a meeting soon after the \t\tAR4 is completed to identify a list of desirable and feasible \t\tcharacteristics to be developed by the scenario development community to \t\treview information available for new emissions scenarios.
On the completion of work of the ADP, INDIA suggested removing e2 80 9cas early as possible.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, clarified that their proposal for a framework for enhanced action does not create new institutions, but gives medium and long-term guidance to, and reviews, existing institutions.
MAURITANIA, with ICELAND, cautioned against concentrating solely on forests and conservation.
 This item was first taken up in plenary on Monday, 6 November, and subsequently in informal consultations co-facilitated by Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
The US said the current structure is not easily comprehensible and noted overlaps, while Australia noted the SYR should integrate, rather than summarize, the three WG reports and that mitigation and adaptation should be addressed simultaneously.
SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA, and Iran, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (LMDCs), supported the proposal.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND said TEMs should focus on enhancing mitigation ambition of all parties.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said parties should not focus on a particular option or sector.
BOLIVIA said reduction credits resulting from natural variability should be avoided and that carbon accounting systems should be able to distinguish between human efforts and natural reductions.
The EU expressed concern about the progress of the review process itself and called on all governments to support it.
The US urged further discussion of long-term emission pathways and noted plans for a federal cap-and-trade system with interim annual goals, guided by a long-term goal up to 2050.
The EU highlighted the important role of a network of centers in the provision of assistance to developing countries for the preparation of country-driven planning and actions on mitigation and adaptation.
Noting the increased US focus on clean energy, he highlighted allocation of US$92 billion to clean energy financing.
The EU proposed considering how to incorporate NAMAs into low-carbon development strategies, and suggested such strategies as a way of communicating needs for support.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the AWG-LCA should be an open, party-driven, transparent and inclusive process and that concrete proposals for specific amounts of financing had yet to be made.
Mohammed Reza Salamat (Iran), who chaired this session, agreed that the current rise cannot be a major factor when detecting impacts of response measures, while the UK underscored the difficulty of trying to assess the impacts against severe market fluctuations.
Richard Muyungi (Tanzania), Chair of the LDCs, said implementation of the LDC work programme has begun, but numerous elements of the programme remain incomplete.
While the EU and developing countries favored \t\tthis text, the US, Canada, Japan and the Russian Federation argued that \t\tit was overly-prescriptive and was attempting to prejudge the outcome of \t\tthe process.
The Chair suggested amending China"s proposal to read, "Emphasizing that...." The EU, supported by the US, suggested replacing "the most important" with "is an essential."
94 \t\tNEW ZEALAND stressed the need for properly verified scientific \t\tinformation to prevent countries from invoking science selectively.
NEW ZEALAND underscored that a final outcome must be ratifiable, stressed that rules must be agreed before commitments can be taken on, and noted that it is always necessary to “read the fine print before signing the contract.”
Saint Lucia, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY, said mitigation commitments should be housed in an annex to the agreement.
Brazil, with the US and Norway, highlighted that many of the REDD-plus principles, including financing and MRV, are dealt with in the sub-section on NAMAs.
INDIA expressed concern that the only concrete outcome of calls for technology transfer is TT:CLEAR.
NEW ZEALAND cautioned that any COP decision should not prejudge policy discussions in other bodies.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said new resources should be channeled through the UNFCCC process and suggested a Convention adaptation fund, an insurance mechanism and a technology fund.
The US observed that relevant mechanisms, such as the Adaptation Committee, have been set up, but noted concerns on how the mechanisms would work.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that mitigation measures should contribute to economic diversification in developing countries and the need for measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) of support.
Panel presentations by Ecuador, for the LMDCs, Switzerland, the US, Mali, for the LDCs, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) highlighted the need to, inter alia: include information on how support is addressing country-driven strategies; avoid double counting by multiple actors; improve methodologies on multilateral flows and mobilized private finance, and collective reporting by developed countries towards the US$100 billion goal; differentiate between reporting and accounting; clarify additionality; and capture the emergence of new actors.
Responding to a request by the Russian Federation to add a reference to Convention Article 17 (protocols), the US noted this only applies to a protocol, while the Durban Platform allows for several possibilities regarding the instrument under preparation.
SAUDI ARABIA said a dangerous level of greenhouse gases could not be determined given scientific uncertainties.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reiterated that acceptance was ad referendum.
WEOG nominated Dan Reifsnyder (US), Asia nominated Thailand, and both nominations were accepted.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, she called for the issue to be included on the SBI 35 agenda under the item on further guidance to the GEF.
CHINA identified the need to define the concept of supplementarity to avoid “mainstreaming” offsetting, specifying that the figure can be further discussed but that it should be below 50%.
JAPAN and the G-77/CHINA agreed to hold bilateral consultations on the matter of reinstatement of mechanisms ef bf bd eligibility.
BRAZIL also raised concerns about the robustness of the science on indirect effects of biofuels production.
EGYPT called for increased efforts on mitigation.
The EU underlined that the text is balanced and reflects progress toward implementing the Protocol.
 In opening the session, INC Chair Ra ef bf bdl Estrada-Oyuela announced that AOSIS nominated Samoa as a COP Vice Chair.
 The EU noted that the scientific knowledge that demonstrates the inadequacy of commitments is clear.
BRAZIL noted that the “polluter pays” principle should be applied in conjunction with historical responsibility.
He concluded by stating that AOSIS was not interested in "targets hurriedly agreed on but never met nor targets endlessly analyzed and never agreed to."
The G-77/CHINA, with AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, highlighted non-tariff trade barriers.
With the US, she stressed the need for technical expertise in the EB.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed that the APA must also be flexible and allow each item to move forward at its own pace.
The EU noted it anticipated receiving more informative and comprehensive reports from the ICAO and IMO.
MEXICO highlighted preparations for COP 16 and COP/MOP 6.
TUNISIA reported delays in GEF funding approval.
Several delegates supported the preparation of graphics for the Synthesis Report and the Working Group reports, but SWITZERLAND and BELGIUM questioned the estimated cost.
The EU proposed additional workshops to address the technical aspects of P&amp;Ms, and, with others, emphasized the need to improve quantification of assessment of P&amp;Ms at a sectoral level.
KUWAIT highlighted recent studies on measures that reduce consequences.
  NEW ZEALAND suggested bringing together all text on mitigation.
EGYPT proposed the establishment of a vulnerability index for non-Annex I countries.
The UK asked that the distinction between the three-gas and six-gas approaches be maintained.
CHINA called for identifying, inter alia, how support would be continuously provided to developing countries for the framework’s implementation.
AUSTRALIA supported a new legally-binding instrument, with specific obligations for a broad set of parties, while PALAU called for a new protocol.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA noted that the Chair’s LULUCF text introduces “hot air” into the agreement.
New Zealand, with the EU, US and Australia, said submission in 2011 is not acceptable.
JAPAN highlighted the need to clearly define the time frame for prospective steps in the guidelines, which should review the performance of policies and measures and should be more comparable.
In the ensuing discussion, SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA cautioned that energy intensive industry may not necessarily relocate to oil exporting countries.
JAPAN, \t\t\tthe EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND underscored action \t\t\tresulting in real and meaningful benefits.
INDIA: suggested identifying and eliminating paragraphs and proposals that are inconsistent with the Bali Action Plan and the Convention; highlighted the fundamental differences between developing and developed country views; said the divergence and convergence conundrum was not easily resolvable; and urged reforming the IPR regime.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted serious concerns regarding the transparent allocation of resources under the GEF.
SWITZERLAND and the EU cautioned that the COP should not be obliged to take a decision on every MCP item.
BRAZIL said the definition of a forest for the purposes of Article 3.3 should be linked to thresholds for the variable tonnes of carbon per hectare.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION explained that \t\tProtocol ratification had been a difficult decision for his country.
Spain, for the EU, observed that it looked forward to the first review, emphasizing that it was important for COP/MOP 6 to consider temporary provisions regarding trust funds and that any projects underway should not be affected by the review.
NEW ZEALAND said his country will "almost certainly" ratify the Protocol next month.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized that guidelines for MRV can be found under the UNFCCC and the Protocol, and that MRV should build on national communications.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the African Group, said it was clear there was no common vision at this point and noted a “u-turn” in the REDD-plus negotiations, urging that this “area of hope” should not be “deliberately undermined.” Lesotho, for LDCs, was concerned that only six negotiating days remained prior to Cancún, and there were “deliberate delaying tactics” from some parties.
CANADA identified, as a key objective, a new financing facility with an accountable body making decisions on funding, well informed by expert-level decisions.
INDIA called for expanding the TEP to include adaptation, technology and finance Technical Expert Meetings (TEMs).
 Co-Facilitator Kelley Kizzier (EU) invited views on elements, headings and criteria for inclusion in a decision text.
JAPAN noted that although expert review teams were useful in assessing implementation, determining non-compliance was not within their mandate.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for referencing the outcomes of the 2013-2015 Review and the specific vulnerabilities of small island developing States (SIDS).
 \t\tJamaica, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed international action on climate \t\tchange and its linkages with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
AOSIS called for a clear and ambitious timetable to elaborate the Protocol.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the AOSIS had made an effort to reflect the BM and its sense of urgency.
In response to the comments on regional centers, JAMAICA stressed that the aim was not to create new institutions but to establish this initiative within existing institutions.
 On long-term emission pathways, JAPAN said that their consideration was relevant to the group’s discussions, and highlighted the existence of a range of pathways for achieving given stabilization scenarios.
INDIA cautioned against selectively quoting declarations adopted in other fora.
He reiterated the EU’s willingness to reduce emissions by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020 as part of a global agreement, provided other countries take on comparable commitments.
New Zealand and Canada indicated that the \t\t\tEU’s experiences in defining targets could be useful and the EU \t\t\toffered to host a workshop on this.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that all parties should be equally accountable for implementing their NDCs.
On the text relating to standardized baselines, the EU supported establishing benchmarks.
The US said the committee should include many members of the current E-team.
GRENADA, the EU, BARBADOS and others opposed this proposal.
Nauru, for AOSIS, identified the need to address surplus Kyoto units, highlighting the proposals by AOSIS and others to move this issue forward.
BHUTAN, NEPAL and PERU drew attention to the significant effects of climate change on fragile mountain ecosystems.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA identified three types of NAMAs, those that: are voluntary; require external support; or generate carbon credits and could expand the scope of the carbon market beyond offsetting mechanisms.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, requested that civil society be admitted into spin-off groups and, with Maldives, for AOSIS, underlined the need to consider the number of parallel groups meeting.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), emphasized that the 2015 agreement must allow for progressive enhancement of contributions.
With the PHILIPPINES and Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, he noted the need to work toward bringing REDD+ initiatives under the UNFCCC.
The G-77/CHINA presented an initial list of issues to address, and stressed consideration of fundamental issues before timing and schedules of work.
c2 a0 BRAZIL underscored that any agreement with a market mechanism must be based on a common understanding of the mechanism’s accounting rules.
KAZAKHSTAN highlighted the unclear status of several former \t\t\tSoviet Union countries under the current regime.
The Adaptation Fund would be a new fund under the GEF, created as a trust fund, with special consideration given to the needs of the LDCs and SIDS.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for India, China, the Philippines, El Salvador, Dominica, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Argentina, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Venezuela, Malaysia, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Algeria and Iran, and China, for BASIC, underscored that the ADP is not a venue to “renegotiate, rewrite, or reinterpret” the Convention principles.
NORWAY observed that emissions reduction targets for developing countries were not discussed during the workshop.
He stated that while AWG 4 \t\thad been able to develop further understanding of the issues at hand, \t\tthe EU had come to Vienna prepared to go further in discussing emission \t\tranges.
 The US proposed a reference to continuing coordination with other relevant bodies.
BENIN asked whether it was possible to fund two delegates from each developing country.
AUSTRALIA, supported by several others, highlighted ongoing discussions on financing under other bodies, and UKRAINE noted that this issue is also being discussed under the AWG-KP.
MEXICO called for comprehensive guidance.
CHILE saw much potential for technology transfers through the CDM.
JAPAN said the widest possible range of resources should be mobilized, including ODA to ensure equitable distribution of CDM projects.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US noted that, although there are portions of the text that could be acceptable as a basis for discussions, the text contains some elements that will take parties back to previous discussions and disagreements.
The PHILIPPINES called for a differentiation between observers, particularly NGOs and IGOs.
INDIA suggested that, based on previous experiences, lack of compliance rather than lack of sufficient guidelines needs to be addressed.
The US acknowledged the existence of “a generic gap” and said the temperature goal is “a vision” to try to work towards, but that there are many pathways to reach 2ºC.
SAUDI ARABIA said consideration of the TOR for the synergies workshop should be postponed until a date is specified for the economic diversification workshop.
 BOLIVIA stressed that Annex I national communications must contain more detail and expressed concern that some non-EIT countries’ emissions were “camouflaged” by EIT emissions.
Proposing the adoption of the ADP agenda based on what was agreed to in Durban, Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a detailed schedule of work with timetables and milestones.
After JAPAN noted that the \t\tOSPAR Convention is a regional treaty, a paragraph elaborating on the \t\tOSPAR and London conventions was deleted.
Maldives, for AOSIS, lamented lack of progress in the consideration of the SED report, on capacity building and in improving the environmental integrity of Kyoto flexibility mechanisms.
On adaptation, PANAMA and others stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund.
 The G-77/CHINA stated that the budget must be prepared with maximum transparency and simplicity, and active, informed participation of all Parties.
 The US and SAUDI ARABIA did not support inclusion of specific P&amp;Ms.
The LMDCs, with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, stated that guidance on features, information and accounting will only apply to the subsequent cycle of NDCs, and called for a differentiated accounting framework.
The EU emphasized the role of P&amp;Ms in compliance action plans and, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CHILE, advocated an open-ended list of facilitation consequences.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, urged implementation of \t\tnational adaptation plans of action (NAPAs).
However, he reassured the Panel of the EU’s respect for IPCC independence to use funds as it deems fit and expressed openness to discussing options and improvements.
On the draft conclusions on emissions resulting from fuel used for international transportation (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/CRP.5), further informal consultations were scheduled after the G-77/CHINA said it had been unable to participate in the drafting group working on this issue due to the heavy workload at COP-5.
FINLAND stressed the EU 92s efforts to achieve tangible results and show demonstrable progress by 2005.
CHINA, for the LMDCs, and the EU noted that the paragraph e2 80 99s placement could suggest that the focus of workstream 2 is only on voluntary activities.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the COP Presidency had pledged to undertake consultations with all parties on Article 9.5 and requested that plenary adjourn until consultations were complete.
The US suggested scheduling Bureau meetings and ExComm meetings to coincide with plenary sessions, and to find ways to promote active remote participation.
The resumed 14th session of AWG-LCA opened on Tuesday, 7 June with Daniel Reifsnyder (US) continuing as the Chair and Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe (Zimbabwe) as the Vice-Chair.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, said a shared vision should prevent further impacts on SIDS and LDCs.
On countries that would be most severely impacted by potential negative consequences, Saudi Arabia, Colombia, Kuwait, Nigeria and others preferred referring to countries identified in Convention Articles 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, while the EU, Japan and AOSIS preferred referring to the poorest and most vulnerable developing country parties.
PAKISTAN, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed the Group 92s commitment to the WSSD and noted concerns that Parties were failing to fulfill their Rio commitments.
The EU said priority should be given to identifying technology needs.
He \t\tstressed the significance of the AWG as part of a larger process both \t\tinside and outside the UNFCCC, noting that the AWG by itself does not \t\thave the mandate to open or encourage contributions from non-Annex I \t\tparties or Protocol non-parties such as the US.
The Gambia, for LDCs, favored a legally-binding agreement encompassing the Bali Action Plan, contingent on adoption of a ratifiable second commitment period.
Specific responses identified in the national communications of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) involved, inter alia, coastal zone planning, modeling of storm surges, engineering solutions, bans on sand extraction, replanting of littoral vegetation, and coping strategies, including education and relocation.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 notes that, as of 1 December 2014, the GEF Secretariat had received 48 requests from non-Annex I parties for funds for the preparation of their BURs, and, that the GEF Council approved, in October 2014, a project for 35 SIDS and LDCs to complete their BURs;
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund also under the Convention.
PERU suggested that this is an issue for the SBSTA.
On issues relating to costs of participation of members in the Executive Board, SLOVENIA proposed reference to economies in transition in the draft text.
The EIG identified as particularly useful the Fund’s direct access modality and sources of funding.
NEW ZEALAND questioned whether caps are necessary given the transparent accounting in the G-77/China’s proposal.
NEW ZEALAND said the text should specify to whom the final compilation and accounting would be reported/transmitted.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the importance of discussing spillover effects.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested highlighting that the GCF is “an institution to stay.” The LMDCs sought for ways to help the GCF Board with transforming the pledges made by countries into finalized support.
The EU recommended establishment of a “friends of the chair” group.
BRAZIL noted that including private sector involvement in the new agreement does not ensure climate finance.
On implications of emissions trading and project-based mechanisms on projections, the Netherlands said assumptions about the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and project-based mechanisms are considered in his country 92s emissions projections.
UZBEKISTAN said the guidelines should contain more detail, including guidelines for emission control.
BOLIVIA stressed that substantive participation of non-Annex I Parties should be based on the principle of sovereignty and right to self-determination and that their emissions limits cannot constitute a precedent nor commit others to emissions limitation targets.
He said it is an “irony of the modern world that we are waiting for some senators in the US Congress to conclude their discussions before we can proceed” and urged President Obama to honor the Nobel Peace Prize and address the “great threat” to security posed by climate change.
NIGERIA said technology needs assessment should not depend on the availability of funds.
BOTSWANA and THAILAND offered to host regional workshops.
BRAZIL expressed concern that its submission on \t\testimating emissions from flooded lands had not been taken into account \t\tand expressed reservations about acceptance of the 2006 Guidelines as \t\tdrafted.
In a presentation on the effect of surplus AAUs and different LULUCF accounting schemes on actual emissions, Spain, for the EU, emphasized the need to know rules before setting reduction targets.
However, the US opposed consideration of \t\tinventory issues at this session.
The US supported establishing hubs of climate experts providing information and tools at the international level and a corps of climate specialists working in countries to accelerate the diffusion of technology.
The key issues discussed included whether the issue is one of concern to all parties, of special concern to parties mentioned in Convention Articles 4.8 and 4.9, or to particularly vulnerable countries, including Africa, SIDS and LDCs.
On Article 4 (joint fulfillment), Chair Dovland noted that the EU and Umbrella Group were holding bilateral consultations, and that the issue would not be forwarded to ministers.
CHINA said once developed countries have taken the lead in mitigating emissions, developing countries will be able to make a contribution.
SINGAPORE opposed a e2 80 9cmassive monitoring machinery e2 80 9d for MRV of adaptation.
Several parties, including New Zealand, the US, Norway and Switzerland, expressed their intention to voluntarily apply the revised guidelines or consider including some of the guidelines’ elements, in their NC7s.
AUSTRALIA noted that P&amp;Ms cover all relevant sources, sinks and reservoirs of GHGs and, therefore, favored aggregating activities in all sectors for a “net” emissions figure.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA emphasized that the process should be party-driven.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the EU, opposed by the GAMBIA, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, THAILAND and other developing countries, called for coordination with the AWG-LCA on levels of ambition and comparability of efforts.
The EU, supported by the US and SWITZERLAND, expressed reservations with language on establishing the financial mechanism of the Convention.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, proposed exempting small-scale projects in LDCs from the additionality requirement.
 Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to make the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage functional and establish a mechanism to address the impacts of response measures.
He referred to the financial commitment of US$100 billion in the document as “a bribe,” saying that a commitment to 2°C would ask Africa to “sign an incineration pact” and was based on values that “tunneled 6 million people in Europe into furnaces.” The UK, Mexico, Canada, Grenada, Norway, the EU and others called on Sudan to withdraw his offensive references to the Holocaust.
Warning that she had “seen this movie before and it does not end well,” VENEZUELA lamented the stocktaking had started in spite of an ongoing coordination meeting of G-77/China Heads of Delegation, and that observers had been excluded from spin-off group negotiations.
SWITZERLAND suggested that the COP/MOP, among others, have a triggering role on the basis of Protocol Article 8.6 (implementation of the Protocol).
BENIN said the GEF should be equipped with additional resources.
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR THE DEVELOPING WORLD: This workshop met from 28 June - 2 July 1999 in Carbondale, Colorado, US.
JAMAICA, supported by SUDAN, the PHILIPPINES, VANUATU and ZAMBIA, called on the CMP to facilitate mobilization of additional funds during CMP 8.
The EU said SBSTA should inform the work of the AWG-LCA.
 The EU described previous work on policies and measures for a protocol, including impacts on international competitiveness.
FRANCE said while trading in CERs is safe, trading in AAUs could be unsafe if the country transferring them ran into compliance trouble at the end of its budget period.
SAMOA said there were several difficulties with the two-body approach, since, for instance an allegation of a potential non-compliance could go both to the enforcement and facilitative body.
The AFRICAN GROUP stressed their objection to certain concepts, such as differentiation among developing countries.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said policies and measures must acknowledge a right to sustainable development.
Executive Secretary Joke Waller-Hunter \t\tnoted that a US$2 million reduction would 93seriously affect the \t\toperations of the Secretariat.
 \t\t\tGermany, on behalf of the European Union (EU), stated the EU’s \t\t\tcommitment to cut emissions by 30% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels \t\t\tif other developed countries follow suit and economically advanced \t\t\tdeveloping countries “contribute adequately according to their \t\t\tresponsibilities and respective capabilities.” She urged extending \t\t\tthe carbon market, addressing emissions from international aviation \t\t\tand maritime transportation, and progress on the Adaptation Fund.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, GUYANA and COSTA RICA objected to changing the name of the agenda item.
 \t\tStressing the iterative nature of AWG ef bf bds work programme, the G-77/CHINA \t\tindicated that if new elements, such as other greenhouse gases, were \t\tadded for the second commitment period, the indicative range for Annex \t\tI emissions reductions agreed by the AWG in Vienna would need to be \t\tupscaled.
The LMDCs also proposed merging sub-options d and e. AUSTRALIA, opposed by CHINA and INDIA, suggested merging sub-options h and l.
NIUE asked how resilience \t\tcould be increased.
The US and several developing countries highlighted mitigation actions already implemented by developing countries, and Mexico and others identified the need for their recognition.
The US reported that the contact group on communications from non-Annex I Parties would reconvene Friday morning.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, underlined: that transparency should apply to all aspects, especially MOI; and the need for differentiation in addressing mitigation, stressing the necessity to link actions and support.
The US, the UK and others stressed this should not set a precedent for the future.
GERMANY stated its intention to work towards a negotiating process that leads to an ambitious protocol or legal instrument on the further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for adoption by COP 3.
The EU suggested also registering outcomes of actions while India stressed that there should be no review of adequacy of developing country actions.
The US and EU suggested stating that progress has been made through multilateral and bilateral activities in the areas of information and methodology, vulnerability and adaptation, as well as in convening workshops and establishing the SCCF and LDC Fund.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented deletion of references to LDCs, SIDS and Africa.
SWITZERLAND said the guidelines should establish criteria for the selection of experts not nominated by governments.
The EU said it would be practical to include bunker fuel emissions in inventories of Parties where the fuel is sold.
The EU noted that its member states are undertaking significant reductions and proposed that the SBI conclusions take note of the report.
ARGENTINA, COLOMBIA, TANZANIA and others emphasized the need for adaptation funding and supported extending the share of proceeds.
BENIN requested facilitation of conference attendance for delegates from Africa.
The EU supported the GEF 92s funding of medium-sized projects and welcomed its effort to streamline the project cycle.
FIJI and CHAD asked how much time experts would spend on this review and the time limit for submissions of names.
The US expressed flexibility on the potential for small projects, on condition that there is no positive list and that sinks are included.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group called for clarifying rules and options affecting level of ambition, including LULUCF accounting rules, length of commitment periods, the basket of gases and carryover of surplus AAUs.
Norway emphasized that the EU and Norway have been implementing the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol since 1 January 2013, and invited other countries to proceed to ratification.
BOLIVIA announced a new submission on non-market-based approaches, including text for a draft decision establishing a joint mitigation and adaptation mechanism, and a joint SBI/SBSTA session to address the mechanism at SB 44.
BOLIVIA opposed inclusion of REDD on the agenda, noting that including items on the agenda stemming from the Cancun Agreements, which were not adopted by consensus, was not acceptable.
  Under this agenda item (FCCC/SBSTA/2013/INF.2), Nepal, for the LDCs, highlighted transparency and verifiability.
 \t\t\tHighlighting precedent with the IPCC Third Assessment Report, Saudi \t\t\tArabia, for the G-77/China, supported considering AR4 at SBSTA 27.
TIMOR LESTE suggested that item 8 could provide a space to discuss loss and damage.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed a workshop on the nature and implication of Annex I Parties ef bf bd P&amp;Ms, as well as one on Protocol Article 3.14.
On the outcome, Maldives, for AOSIS, and others called for setting a workplan through 2018.
Stressing urgency, JAPAN warned against wasting time on agenda discussions and called for starting substantive work under contact groups.
BANGLADESH highlighted the absence of differentiation between climate finance and official development assistance.
On a   the EU said it would be useful to define elements of the package, the role of the second commitment period in that package and what contributions non-Annex I parties would make to the package.
The US suggestion "with guidelines, revised as appropriate" was accepted.
BOLIVIA said market-based technology transfer is in itself a barrier for countries without attractive markets.
BRAZIL explained that the rationale for the proposal was that it provides definitions for mitigation actions, particularly regarding their characterization, comprehensiveness and the metrics they use, and highlighted that these would promote comparability.
A major problem inherent in the EU “bubble” approach is its allowance for wide differentiation of targets within the EU, while denying differentiation to others.
On modalities for treatment of CDM projects upon graduation of host parties, CHINA, BRAZIL, the PHILIPPINES and others supported no decision.
On identification of decision text, Bolivia, for the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/CHINA, supported by many developing countries, said this step should be preceded by a discussion on substance.
 AUSTRALIA, INDIA, the EU, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND supported the use of the Revised Guidelines by both Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, the outcome on the LEG, and regretted lack of agreement on capacity building.
INDIA, speaking for the G-77/ CHINA, called for progress on other elements of the BAPA, highlighted the need for conformity with the FCCC 92s emphasis on equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, and emphasized issues relating to the nature and scope of the mechanisms and supplementarity.
The EU supported the concise length of the text in the agreement and highlighted the role of cooperative action.
Lamenting the inclusion of aviation emissions under the EU ETS, SAUDI ARABIA stressed that the ICAO deters states from taking unilateral actions until its recommendations are developed.
Parties also proposed topics for the next in-session workshop, with Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, proposing a session on the effects of 1.5 c2 b0C of global warming.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN, the US, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and the EU, noted convergence on information exchange and encouraged accomplishing this through existing mechanisms such as national communications.
He noted efforts by the EU, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand and others to consolidate their proposals on new mechanisms and provide streamlined text.
ICELAND addressed carbon intensities and the need to stimulate the development of technologies to avoid wasteful emissions.
On the LDC Fund, delegates discussed the Canadian proposal, noting that it contained specific elements for the organization of four regional workshops and the initiation of a dialogue on next steps in the national adaptation programmes of action (NAPA) implementation process.
COLOMBIA supported the need to recognize unilateral actions internationally.
The G-77/CHINA, with ARGENTINA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern over lack of progress on this issue and said developed countries are failing to meet their COP-7 obligations.
The UK noted that although adaptation and impacts are often joined in the literature and assessed together, it may be helpful to distinguish between impact assessment to inform overall mitigation action and regional risk assessments for adaptation.
 In informal consultations, the US, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, addressed the issue of late payment of dues, seeking information on existing practices in other UN fora.
NEW ZEALAND supported a \t\tpost-2012 regime that effectively reduces emissions, is fair and \t\tequitable, cost effective, and economically viable.
e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND favored a review in 2016 or 2017.
 \t\tThe EU said the roles of SBSTA, SBI and \t\tthe COP should be clarified.
CHINA asked what would happen to a case that had been referred to the facilitation component but despite exhausting all the assistance that component could offer, the Party was still in non-compliance.
CHINA suggested using the terms e2 80 9cdifferentiated commitments/contributions.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, noted the desire of developing countries to diversify their economies and emphasized developed countries e2 80 99 historical responsibility.
Chair Reifsnyder (US) proposed identifying common elements between the two proposals.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for the ADP to outline a clear plan for taking forward the work required to deliver its mandate.
BOLIVIA called for an international tribunal of climate justice to address developed countries’ non-compliance.
The Czech Republic, for the EUROPEAN UNION (EU), noted the upcoming meeting of the Group of 20.
Honduras, for SICA, welcomed progress on loss and damage and highlighted the need for: further progress on NAPs; full and timely support for adaptation measures from developed countries; and financial resources to compensate loss and damage, noting that COP 18 should work towards prevention and the reduction of damages as a main priority.
On capacity building, NORWAY, with JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and others, underscored that it was a cross-cutting issue and should be integrated into relevant chapters.
On arrangements for COP/MOP-1, the EU supported work on common issues for the COP and COP/MOP and the definition of necessary rules and procedures.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized that the AWG-LCA should agree on comparable mitigation commitments for Annex I countries that are not parties to the Kyoto Protocol.
NORWAY highlighted, inter alia, the need for agreement on an international action plan on technology as a strategic basis for work, as well as the role of financing for technology in relation to the overall financing architecture for mitigation and adaptation.
With NEW ZEALAND, he expressed support for a technical review process of inventories, noting that this is fundamental to the development of an adjustment process.
CANADA and the PHILIPPINES called for more discussion on individual party and collective reviews.
On scaling-up and intensifying support, BRAZIL said the uncertainty related to the 2012-2020 financing gap must be overcome, and observed that some non-Annex I countries are doing more mitigation than Annex I countries.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented the overall lack of reference to equity, CBDR, mitigation obligations of developed countries, and specific national and regional development priorities.
AOSIS responded that it envisaged an overlap between enforcement and compliance functions.
GABON expressed unease with “full and prior consent.” BOLIVIA, with MALAYSIA, INDONESIA and COLOMBIA, stressed that the text needs to be consistent with national legislation.
On additional activities during the first commitment period, the EU, TUVALU, CHINA, NORWAY and MALAYSIA, opposed by JAPAN, said these should not be pursued.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the US proposal does not address the problems with the current financial mechanism.
INDIA said the review of implementation should be addressed in post-Paris decisions, an option CHINA requested remain on the table.
AOSIS expressed concern over "blanket" inclusion in sinks of all land use and forestry activities as this would introduce uncertainties and distract the Protocol from focusing on fossil fuel dependence.
NORWAY urged initiatives on REDD+ and short-lived climate forcers.
BRAZIL emphasized that the finance group is addressing “the how” and that this group must address “what” should be accomplished.
MAURITANIA identified some needs to be addressed, such as support for assessing levels of emissions.
INDIA noted that the Dialogue underscored the need for raising pre-2020 ambition.
SOUTH AFRICA acknowledged the need for an agreement, while highlighting that the matter is broader than just the AWG-LCA’s outcome.
The US, with Australia, said each country should maintain a schedule of actions they intend to take to meet their commitments, with periodic reporting on implementation and revisions to enhance commitments.
 , Germany, France, Canada, Grenada, Switzerland, the EU, and Belgium called for reinserting text from the FGD on the significantly decreased share of primary energy from coal under pathways consistent with 1.5 c2 b0C, given its high confidence level and relevance.
IRAN, with CHINA, BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and the PHILIPPINES expressed concern over a steep increase in the proposed budget’s expenditure levels.
Two developing country groups opposed removing references to LDCs and SIDS from a paragraph outlining that the committee shall take the national capabilities and circumstances of parties into account at all stages of the process.
 \t\tSOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and ALGERIA highlighted \t\tinconsistencies in the technical paper, including the use of a number of \t\tdifferent base years.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said loopholes must be closed on LULUCF accounting and carryover of surplus AAUs.
BRAZIL noted that the introduction of flexibility does not enhance mitigation action.
A wide group of countries spoke in favor of this proposal stating it would improve the effectiveness of the Convention, including COSTA RICA, COLOMBIA, GUYANA, SURINAME and the EU.
Hungary and the EU proposed reference to "relevant international and intergovernmental organizations."
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said there was insufficient time to negotiate differentiation.
The EU suggested an additional option that the pre-commitment reviews could be initiated when a Party makes a voluntary submission within a mandatory deadline.
On information sharing, he suggested that Parties should explore creative forms of communication, and illustrated an example of the US Climate Technology Cooperation and Gateway website, which provides links to computer models, such as LEAP 96 a software tool for integrated energy, environment and GHG mitigation analysis.
On COP/MOP, SWITZERLAND, with NEW ZEALAND, said it would "take note" of the compliance body 92s reports.
He explained that while sectoral crediting would increase the supply of credits, the main objective of the EU proposal was to extend the carbon price signal to new sectors and actors.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA and KUWAIT, objected that no new or substantial issues were slated for discussion and questioned whether the meeting warranted ministerial attendance.
AOSIS, Mexico and Uganda noted that Annex I countries are not fulfilling their commitments and emissions are on the rise.
The US explained that annual reports include information on both inventories and the assigned amount and, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that first-order problems only refer to the former.
AUSTRALIA proposed an in-session IPCC presentation on relevant work from the AR4.
BOLIVIA underscored the need for an integrated vision of forests and including indigenous peoples in the discussions.
The US also expressed disappointment at the brevity of the status report and urged the Secretariat to provide a more substantive assessment.
SAMOA acknowledged that the Convention and its objectives stood to gain from a further discussion of voluntary commitments, but discussion at this stage would be detrimental.
NORWAY suggested uncertainty can be equally significant in activity-based approaches.
AUSTRALIA welcomed ICAO’s shift towards a more action-oriented “implementation mode” and underscored the need for the universal application of market-based measures.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, called for an action-oriented document.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted problems faced by non-Annex I parties in preparing their national communications, particularly with regard to access to funding through the GEF.
The EU, South Africa for the African Group, and Pakistan supported the AOSIS proposal.
Emphasizing equitable distribution, BURKINA FASO proposed that Annex I countries should commit to funding projects in each African country and LDC.
Brazil proposed adding references to the Doha Amendment and the annual US$100 billion finance goal by 2020.
The US proposed that parties continue to meet as a contact group but in a smaller room and requested that observers be allowed to attend.
The EU supported moving forward by exchanging views on both texts.
CANADA added that this includes members having a direct or indirect interest in the matter.
The EU, with NORWAY, and opposed \t\tby CANADA, requested that SBSTA seek submissions by Parties on specific \t\tnational HWP data by 1 August 2005.
Expressing disappointment at the \t\tlack of a more substantive outcome, the G-77/China, opposed by the EU, \t\tproposed an alternative text noting that the group had 93failed to reach \t\tconclusions.
BRAZIL proposed adding reference to “tax border adjustments.” SINGAPORE supported retaining the idea while considering specific language.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-LCA and said that parties should strive to have a set of draft decisions by the end of the week.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need for predictable funding and the provision of agreed full costs for the preparation of non-Annex I national communications.
 The G-77/CHINA emphasized technologies for both mitigation and adaptation, financing and international cooperation.
PAKISTAN noted the necessity of defining adaptation needs nationally as well as of clearly identifying resources and mechanisms for their allocation and channeling.
NEW ZEALAND proposed a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches where obligations on mitigation apply to all parties but according to national determinants.
NEPAL underscored means of implementation for developing countries to deal with vulnerabilities and undertake a low-carbon development path.
JAPAN expressed concern with using the facilitator’s note as a basis for negotiation, noting the scope was too wide.
The EU, supported by the US and JAPAN, said donors should not place their resources in the hands of the COP.
Non-Annex I communications contact group: The contact group met to discuss proposed draft decisions submitted by the EU and the G-77/CHINA and to decide on ways to proceed in preparation for COP-5.
CHINA highlighted that the Review should aim to provide useful inputs to the ADP and be based on information about implementation of commitments under the Convention.
On strategic review of implementation, AILAC supported a five-year cycle and, with SWITZERLAND, TURKEY and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, and opposed by CHINA, said it should be applicable to all parties.
SWITZERLAND noted the need for mandatory requirements to maintain the integrity of the Bonn Agreements.
NORWAY and JAPAN called for the TEC and CTCN to be more involved in the TEMs, with NEW ZEALAND suggesting they manage the TEMs and communicate TEM outcomes.
NIGERIA said that the one salient point that recurred throughout the discussion was that analysis and assessment activities were central to the AGBM process.
NICARAGUA stressed the need for developed countries to cover the full cost of adaptation actions.
e2 80 9d The US, with AUSTRALIA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the EU and others, opposed by the LDCs, proposed progress made e2 80 9cpursuant to Decision 1/CP.17.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, highlighted the linkages between the adjustment and compliance processes.
EGYPT urged considering how to encourage private sector involvement on a voluntary basis.
SAMOA asked that the formulation not be limited to Articles 5, 7 and 8, but leave room for other criteria developed in the mechanisms group, such as on supplementarity.
The UK suggested accepting the sentence that had been proposed by \t\tthe US, but Chair Pachauri stressed that it had been opposed by the \t\tAuthors.
The UK also suggested involving the Global Change SysTem for Analysis, Research and Training (START) and the WMO.
JAPAN stressed the importance of adhering to the terms of references, noting that the scope of the workshop was impacts under the FCCC.
JAPAN reported on the institutional arrangements spin-off, noting that parties had not reached the “bridging” stage.
CANADA emphasized the cleaner energy proposal as a priority for the future success of the Protocol.
JAPAN proposed an advisory group for sectoral cooperation to support MRV of mitigation actions by developing countries, and highlighted the utility of public and private sector collaboration in promoting support.
He recalled the recent decision of the EU Council of Environment Ministers, which established a common position on a reduction target for the year 2010.
On whether to consider sectors where emissions can be attributed to a particular country, sectors where emissions cannot be attributed, or both, the EU and Norway supported considering both, while Saudi Arabia stated that sectors that go beyond national borders should not be addressed.
This proposal was opposed by Australia, the US and Saudi Arabia.
 On Section E, Chile, for AILAC, MEXICO and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested the inclusion of a global adaptation goal.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented the lack of urgency toward addressing the likely 3-4°C warming, and underlined that although the Cancun Agreements represent a step forward, they still lack scope, substance and ambition.
Noting developing countries require capacity to take action on climate change and deliver on the Paris agreement, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by JAMAICA, MEXICO and SENEGAL, suggested developed countries not think of capacity building as a liability, but as a collaborative approach to enabling all to contribute to the 2015 agreement.
Brazil, Samoa and the EU suggested framing "financial penalty" as a separate option.
 Spain, for the EU, welcomed the fifth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and progress by the Adaptation Fund Board.
He said MRV proposals must be unified and integrated, while INDIA opposed integrating MRV sections for developed and developing countries.
CANADA, with the US, noted that the review of additionality for JI projects would be under Article 8 (review of information).
On ambition, Maldives, for AOSIS, with Barbados, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (CARICOM), COSTA RICA, MALI, SAMOA, ECUADOR, the PHILIPPINES, BOLIVIA and SAINT LUCIA, stressed a below 1.5 c2 b0C goal as critical.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said their proposal for a multi-window mechanism to address loss and damage from climate change impacts is coherent with the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund and would fund additional elements, such as addressing loss and damage, and insurance.
COLOMBIA, INDIA and SOUTH AFRICA opposed reference to “benchmarks,” with INDIA and others highlighting the need to avoid external standards.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for enhancing the means of implementation to meet the additional reporting requirements established in Cancun.
Greentrack noted lack of integration among levels in the US, as well as lack of consideration of and planning for adaptation, noting most of the attention is given to mitigation.
JAPAN, supported by SWITZERLAND, discussed the need to evaluate co-benefits.
TURKEY identified the need for clear methodologies to define targets for countries with different development levels.
 The EU expressed the need for a more detailed budget, and noted that the composition of the ACABQ did not coincide with the Parties to the Convention.
The EU said a workshop co-organized by the CCD and CBD on identifying and promoting synergies through forest and forest ecosystems will be held in March 2004, in Viterbo, Italy.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, warned against excluding any proposals made by members of the Group.
CHINA proposed establishing a climate change adaptation committee under the Convention to assist work on adaptation, focused on developing countries.
COLOMBIA emphasized support for the COP President and the facilitators who have the task to generate texts that attempt to bring countries closer to consensus.
SOUTH AFRICA said the objectives should reflect, inter alia, the need to: reduce vulnerability and build resilience; and identify linkages and coherence with actions taking place at the international level.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported discussing modalities and procedures for (a) public registry/-ies for NDCs and adaptation communications in one contact group, and urged prioritizing the annual focus of the PCCB.
 c2 a0Japan, supported by Germany, New Zealand and the US, cautioned that the involvement of the IPCC Chair and Secretariat would introduce complications in staff recruitment and management processes, and called for transparency on recruitment.
Slovenia, for the EU, along with Japan, Australia and others, underscored the need to accelerate the process.
In the agenda for work, CHINA proposed moving up deadlines to allow more time for preparation.
On liability, NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need to consider cost effectiveness and the objectives of the FCCC.
JAPAN underscored the achievements of the CDM in promoting sustainable development in developing countries.
URUGUAY explained that the drafting group had convened four times and produced a revised text as well as an agreement on a work programme relating to agriculture.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, highlighted the importance of discussing ambition with respect to the means of implementation.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated the need address principles and basic elements before dealing with methodological and operational issues.
The EU called for not having operational details on finance in other sections.
BOLIVIA requested that text be added allowing host countries, rather than Designated Operational Entities (DOEs), determine co-benefits.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: discussions on national adaptation plans (NAPs) to consider means of implementation (MOI); sustainability and predictability of funds for the Adaptation Fund; and defining non-state actors’ role.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, said a balanced outcome for Cancun would contain an amendment of Annex B and definition of Annex I parties’ further commitments.
SAUDI ARABIA recommended discussing non-Annex I Parties\' commitments only after the Kyoto Protocol enters into force.
JAPAN and others highlighted links with the AWG-LCA, while the G-77/CHINA, INDIA, COLOMBIA and others indicated that the AWG-LCA is waiting for progress under the AWG-KP.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, emphasized the gap between what is required by science and the 13-19% aggregate reduction reflected by the current pledges.
The EU highlighted the Convention’s catalytic role.
The EU highlighted the task in Bonn was to take forward what was mandated in Durban and lamented lack of sufficient progress.
INDIA called for language on promoting access to technologies.
 The EU suggested adding language to paragraph 1(c) to read "provided that the inventories are compiled on a fully disaggregated and detailed gas-by-gas basis and that the methodologies and calculations are transparent," and "on a provisional basis" so that new IPCC methodologies could be added in the future.
AOSIS identified the need to review both: the long-term global goal, which would be triggered by science; and implementation arrangements on the four building blocks.
With BRAZIL, she said any appeal body should be limited to overriding decisions.
JAPAN, also on behalf CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, put forward a proposal for a draft COP decision expressly deferring the issue of the nature of the consequences to COP/MOP-1.
The GAMBIA urged work on translating science into policy.
KUWAIT stressed an assessment of policies and measures and QELROs based on their economic impact on developing countries.
The US suggested using language from previous SBI conclusions, and the Secretariat explained that relevant language on emission trends is contained in decision 1/CP.9.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the US opposed the paragraph due to the lack of legal context.
KUWAIT drew attention to the negative effects of uncertainty regarding oil demand and called for support mechanisms and technological options such as carbon capture and storage.
SWITZERLAND explained his country’s pledge to reduce emissions by at least 20% between the years 2013-2020 compared to 1990 levels and the possibility of increasing the target to 30% if other developed countries commit to comparable emissions reductions and economically more advanced developing countries contribute adequately according to their differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
The SUDAN and SENEGAL said it was premature to decide on the inclusion of sinks, as the IPCC report had just been released.
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION asked that the SBI process not be politicized and that their reflection be included in the SBI report.
AUSTRALIA said a new treaty is the best way to achieve a collective outcome and the US outlined its proposal for a legally-binding agreement under the Convention.
The US will likely argue that the high costs of action identified in the report mean that other socially desirable investments are preferable to those combatting climate change.
INDIA called for an intersessional meeting of both, the SBs and the AWGs.
SWITZERLAND said that the existing information units of the Secretariat and UNEP should be used to further work under Article 6 and, with the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and IRAN, called upon the IPCC to provide reports in languages other than English.
SAUDI ARABIA recalled the existing FCCC provision for any Party to undertake Annex I commitments.
HUNGARY said he strongly disagreed with this proposal.
 JAPAN stated that many Asian countries favor a ministerial segment.
CHINA, supported by others, said the AWG-KP should consider the extent to which the mechanisms can help Annex I parties achieve their commitments during the second commitment period.
Agreeing to focus on the 2017 workshop on long-term climate finance, parties commented on the workshop’s scope, with the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, calling for it to: be informed by the High-Level Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; increase clarity on how to scale up climate finance; and, with AILAC, consider how to advance adaptation finance.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that parties review developments since the original decision.
JAPAN identified limitations in data availability in developing countries, the challenge of establishing MRV systems and potential double counting of offset credits.
Noting that discussions on mechanisms and institutional arrangements should not distract from what parties want to accomplish, CHINA supported a technology roadmap, including identifying areas for technology financing, and urged a strong agreement that leads to meaningful technology transfer.
SWITZERLAND suggested that decisions will be required for operationalizing the agreement and addressing issues that are to be tackled before the entry into force of the agreement.
The G-77/CHINA indicated willingness to accept "meaningful and effective action" if brackets were removed from the annex.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, OMAN, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and ALGERIA, stressed that all developing countries are affected by negative consequences of response measures and that efforts to “sub-divide” developing countries are inconsistent with the Convention.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted its recent pledge to reduce emissions by 20-25% from 1990 levels by 2020.
The US clarified that their proposal for a global climate fund envisaged new arrangements and not the creation of a new institution.
The EU proposed reviewing ambition at five-year intervals.
SOUTH AFRICA supported a two-track legally-binding outcome.
At the final meeting of AGBM-4, SAUDI ARABIA complained about a lack of transparency in discussion regarding Annex I countries and called for an international approach to revenue recycling, mirroring the approach to burden sharing.
In paragraph 10 (deliberations), the EU, supported by SLOVENIA and GHANA, proposed that the Committee meet "at least once a year."
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the 2013-2015 review, adaptation, MOI and gender.
Tuvalu, supported by the Gambia, for LDCs, and Bolivia, noted the organization of work since COP/MOP 1 in Montreal has resulted in discussions that have “led nowhere.” He called for a single agenda item on ensuring no gap between the first and second commitment periods and said that “those not wishing to continue their obligations under the Protocol should be politely and quietly asked to leave the room.” AWG-KP Chair Macey noted this could be addressed under the organization of work under the agenda item on further commitments for Annex I parties under the Protocol.
The AFRICA GROUP requested voluntary assistance and active stakeholder participation in A&amp;R CDM project implementation.
On differentiation, AILAC supported reference to commitments by all parties.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA urged continued development of national programmes.
On Nature, Australia, the EU, the Russian Federation and the US preferred no express provision.
The EU, Japan and New Zealand highlighted related proposals for Protocol amendments, as well as links with adaptation and finance discussions under the AWG-LCA.
The Co-Chair said that both amendments will be reflected but the US preferred bracketing the G-77 text.
JAPAN stressed the importance of MRV in relation to the registered actions.
AILAC and the EU emphasized driving action and greater ambition.
The EU said that they appreciated the efforts of non-Annex I experts and the G-77/China proposal on guidelines, but could not accept these substantial modifications.
 \t\t\tThe US and Belarus questioned language noting that taxes and charges \t\t\tare cost-effective.
She emphasized their commitment to provide €2.4 billion of fast-track financing in 2010-2012, and said the EU has launched informal consultations on how to implement this fast-track financing.
JAPAN said the implementation of the Paris Agreement requires all stakeholders’ participation.
They also recognized the commitment by developed countries to provide US$30 billion of fast-start finance in 2010-2012, and to jointly mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020.
The G-77/CHINA opposed a three-year time frame for completion of national communications after receipt of funding.
With the US, Australia said that matching action to support is best discussed in the context of finance.
Australia proposed, and the Panel agreed, to record the EU’s concern in the minutes of the meeting along with Austria’s suggestion.
AUSTRALIA supported streamlining efforts.
AUSTRALIA expressed support for devoting a portion of the meeting to discussing MRV.
CANADA reported on Wednesday’s spin-offs, noting constructive discussions on the framework for enhanced action, and presenting a list of key aspects of the technology section.
 GHANA: Sam P. Yalley, Deputy Minister of the Environment, Science and Technology, noted that the anticipated impact of climate change will be irreversible in his country.
Supported by Argentina, South Africa and Brazil, for the G-77/China, Tuvalu noted that parties have different views on progress, expressing concern at the slow progress in the AWG-KP compared to the AWG-LCA.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by BELARUS, called for adding a reference to translation of the text into all official UNFCCC languages.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the financial crisis should not delay action and welcomed efforts to improve distribution of CDM projects.
The G-77/CHINA opposed text on crediting for AIJ pilot phase projects and proposed an amendment on continuing the AIJ pilot phase, focusing on developing countries.
On the proposal to levy a "share of proceeds" on Protocol Article 6 (JI) and Article 12 (emissions trading), the RUSSIAN FEDERATION expressed willingness to discuss this possibility only under certain conditions.
Co-Chair Rosland said there would be further consultations between the EU, US, NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND to be reported back to the contact group on Friday.
JAPAN noted the need for developing countries to improve their investment environments.
The UK also proposed that if holding an earlier session is not possible, two sessions could be held next year instead of one.
NORWAY called for: a clear focus on mitigation in INDCs; a process to consider the overall effect of contributions; and gender equality in climate action.
The LMDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by AOSIS, called for identifying opportunities for actions with high adaptation potential, in addition to mitigation, and, opposed by AUSTRALIA, for text differentiating between mitigation opportunities in developed and developing countries.
On the eligibility of sink projects, the EU preferred their exclusion pending a decision by the COP.
The SOLOMON ISLANDS said exchanging experiences would not be useful if means of implementation to enhance NAMAs are not ensured.
SAMOA questioned whether parts of AAs (PAAs) could be held by allocated legal entities or only by sovereign states.
China, India, Egypt, for the Arab Group, and Bolivia underlined that all parties had agreed to the declaration, including a statement on climate change that recognizes the principle of CBDR.
On paragraph 89 on the Financial Mechanism, PANAMA, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested moving text on the SCF to paragraph 90 on new institutional arrangements.
JAPAN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, suggested calling on ICAO and IMO to continue addressing bunker fuel emissions.
CANADA stressed adaptive capacity and understanding local \t\tconditions.
The US restated that a differentiated approach would not be appropriate.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), expressed concern over systematic attempts to lower expectations for Copenhagen and recalled that, according to the mandate agreed in Bali, the AWG-LCA should complete its work in 2009.
On 29 November, the SBI addressed this agenda item, including the report of, and additional guidance to, the GEF, as well as the LDC Fund (support for the implementation of elements of the LDCs’ work programme other than NAPAs), and forwarded it to a contact group co-chaired by Ana Fornells de Frutos (Spain) Lavaasa Malua (Samoa).
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to reflect recent scientific evidence and, with AUSTRALIA, noted changing national circumstances.
IRAN noted that countries have needs determined by their unique circumstances.
MEXICO proposed that a post-2020 outcome with legal force could work together with a cluster of related instruments that have separate contractual, prescriptive and facilitative dimensions.
KIRIBATI asked that fisheries be specifically mentioned as a topic for consideration.
Tanzania, speaking for the Least Developed Countries, stated \t\tthat the G-77/China did not have a consensus position on policies and \t\tmeasures.
CHINA, NORWAY and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported an adaptation framework.
CHINA and others raised concerns over the CDM being discussed in different groups and emphasized the need to avoid parallel meetings.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the importance of MRV.
The US asked the G-77/CHINA if the intention was to confine discussion of the second review to that agenda item at COP-4; and about the timing of future reviews.
BOLIVIA called for deeper cuts by developed countries than the range noted by IPCC Working Group III.
The US suggested that non-Annex I national communica-tions should be submitted no more than four years after the submission of their initial communications, and that LDCs should submit their communications every five years.
EGYPT said its national strategy for CDM would include provisions for environmental integrity, sustainable economic development, and conservation of natural resources.
The EU stressed the importance of establishing and maintaining national teams to initiate learning processes.
Describing Lima as a decisive moment for the future of the multilateral regime on climate change, Chile, for AILAC, called for transparent, inclusive and productive negotiations, and urged countries to contribute to the GCF.
Saint Kitts and Nevis and the UK favored maintaining the figure as presented.
The EU, opposed by China, supported a role for the Secretariat.
 CANADA said climate change is a global problem and requires an effective international response.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called on developed countries to increase their pre-2020 mitigation and mobilization efforts and said the transparency framework should emphasize transparency of support.
INDONESIA called for a “balanced, comprehensive outcome” that is applicable to all while maintaining the principle of CBDR-RC.
The EU noted that the additionality test has a firm legal basis and that relaxing it would require a Protocol amendment.
Several parties, including the EU, highlighted the \t\tneed to expedite the Board 92s work in order to cope with the large number \t\tof projects expected in the coming years.
  On the agenda (FCCC/SBI/2012/1), MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA, BRAZIL, EGYPT, INDIA and others, highlighted the sensitivity of the agenda sub-item on information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed that, in accordance with the Convention, countries should be able to receive financial resources even if they have not signed or ratified the Paris Agreement.
Maldives, for AOSIS, raised concerns that there was insufficient time to reflect on proposals.
Cuba, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), said the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text should ensure consistency and balance among all elements of the Durban Platform, avoid losing any item under negotiation, and capture the work done at ADP 2-9.
MALI, speaking for the LDCs, hoped that developing countries, and especially LDCs, would benefit from meaningful assistance.
 CANADA tabled a discussion paper on principles, modalities, rules and guidelines for an international emissions trading regime on behalf of Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Russia and the US.
On paragraph 129 on a long-term technology goal, CHINA explained it would help motivate and develop a technology e2 80 9ccirculation process.
SUDAN and TURKMENISTAN encouraged international cooperation to revive traditional means of transportation and enhanced energy efficiency.
Colombia, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, Peru and Uruguay, expressed “great interest” in the proposal by AOSIS.
The PHILIPPINES identified the need to avoid prejudging the AWG-LCA’s outcome, specifying that both options, a COP decision or a protocol, should remain on the table.
NEW ZEALAND proposed addressing standardized baselines and positive lists, together with technical assistance and capacity building.
JAPAN highlighted its Cool Earth Partnership and sectoral approaches as ways of identifying financial needs for technologies on a sectoral basis.
CHILE suggested adding reference to e2 80 9ccountries most vulnerable to climate change impacts.
 ARGENTINA: Maria Julia Alsogaray, Secretary of Natural and Human Environment, called for a Ministerial Declaration that is substantive and binding to support the SAR, one based on consensus that is a “convergence of opinion”, not necessarily unanimity.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the Kyoto Protocol is an important part of the work towards a comprehensive climate regime including all major economies.
Belgium, for the EU, stated its preference for a single, legally-binding instrument that includes essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol, while indicating that he was open to other options as long as they are binding, comprehensive and in line with the aim of limiting temperature increases to 2°C.
Spain, for the EU, with CANADA and AUSTRALIA, called for symmetry and balance.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and INDIA sought clarification on the relationship between the Executive Board and national authorities.
CHINA, with BRAZIL, suggested only exempting countries with economies in transition, while the EU cautioned against “discrimination of our Member States.” After discussion, parties agreed to apply in-country in-depth reviews to all Annex I parties without exemption.
BRAZIL and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION shared their views on potential areas for synergies among various processes under the Convention to facilitate the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasizing the need for closer cooperation between bodies dealing with adaptation, and research and systematic observation under the Convention.
Individual EU members have already submitted their own reports, which provides a good indication of EU efforts.
 \t\tSeveral participants proposed using language from Convention Article 9 (SBSTA), \t\tand the UK proposed to address the issue of consistency with SBSTA 92s \t\tmandate in a chapeau paragraph.
COSTA RICA offered to chair a contact group on the issue.
Several Parties, including DENMARK, VENEZUELA, POLAND, AUSTRALIA, FRANCE, the EU and the US, called for the establishment of a coherent, effective and strong compliance system.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO said Brazil’s proposal on QELROs provided a logical way forward and Germany’s proposal provided impetus to the work of the AGBM.
On the means of enhancing observer organizations engagement through, inter alia, guiding the facilitators of informal consultations to propose the meetings be open to observers when they consider this would not impede negotiations SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others suggested deleting the text or changing the language, noting that this is the current practice and there is no need to reflect it in SBI conclusions.
The US, AUSTRALIA and the EU urged Parties to prioritize observatory systems and highlighted the deteriorating conditions of the systems in use.
  The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, requested, and parties agreed, referring only to additional guidance to the GEF in the title of the decision text.
Tuvalu, the Cook Islands and others preferred a \t\t 93learning-by-doing 94 approach, and called for the inclusion of reference \t\tto SIDS.
Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) reported on informal consultations on the proposed new agenda items.
  At the afternoon meeting, NORWAY outlined plans to reduce emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, opposed the proposal but accepted it in the spirit of compromise.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA, PERU and PANAMA, stressed the need for actual transfer of technology in addition to information.
BOLIVIA emphasized that the Protocol must be maintained, and that the Protocol compliance mechanism should be applied and strengthened.
MEXICO and BRAZIL emphasized building on existing institutions.
The US, Singapore and Japan indicated that Convention Article 3.5 (open international economic system) adequately addresses trade concerns.
The EU supported a new protocol in which all parties would take on commitments, and emphasized that the context in which the Convention principles are being applied has changed and that mitigation must be at the heart of the new agreement.
On the mention of a Protocol amendment, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION also stressed their desire for a comprehensive and global legal framework, not a mere Protocol extension.
The EIG suggested adding that the APA agrees to focus its further work in the upcoming session on substantive elements of the agreed working areas, which China opposed, saying that this could imply that the APA was not already working on substantive matters.
The US supported a legally-binding agreement including commitments from all major economies.
PAKISTAN identified Annex I countries’ aggregate and individual targets as the main stumbling block in the negotiations.
On ICA, SOUTH AFRICA said that the analysis component would include consideration of whether the reported actions have been taken and whether support has been received.
The EU noted that mitigation and adaptation commitments must be addressed differently.
CANADA raised the question as to how contributions to other international reduction activities, such as investment in R&amp;D with broader implications for the collective transformation from business-as-usual to low-carbon economies, would be accounted for.
The US stressed that compliance is an urgent matter and must be completed by COP-6.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN, CANADA and others stressed that quantifying the concept of “supplementarity” is not necessary.
IRAN said they should address the Bali Action Plan (BAP).
AUSTRALIA, with NORWAY, indicated that a technology mechanism is not a single mechanism but a series of mechanisms and underlined the importance of centers of excellence.
JAMAICA underscored that actions should be voluntary and that guidance software could be developed to assist parties.
The EU, VISEGRAD GROUP, and numerous others supported ratification and entry into force of the Protocol in 2002.
CHINA indicated that it had prepared a proposal on supplementarity under Article 7.2 (national communications).
The US preferred reflecting the temperature goal in the preamble, and referring to net-zero emissions or carbon neutrality in decisions.
The G-77/CHINA also suggested moving paragraphs on institutional arrangements and their periodic assessments from COP decisions to the agreement.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, elaborated its proposal that, inter alia: builds on existing mechanisms; safeguards vulnerable countries, including LDCs and SIDS; and reflects changing scientific information.
The NETHERLANDS announced funding for \t\tclimate observations in Africa through the GCOS regional action plan.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern that several Annex I parties had reported 2014 emission levels that exceeded their 1990 levels and called for strengthening the WIM.
 On the scope of MRV, ARGENTINA, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against bias towards mitigation.
ARGENTINA noted ongoing informal consultations on a new COP-4 item on voluntary commitments by non-Annex I Parties.
New Zealand, the US, Australia and the EU proposed deleting paragraphs on a “Forum on Accelerated Implementation of Enhanced pre-2020 Climate Action.”
On the use of experts, the EU said it would be difficult to charge experts with defining country-driven approaches.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to accelerate the negotiating process and supported holding a stocktaking plenary on Friday.
Sweden, on behalf of the EU, called for a binding agreement that incorporates the essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
During the ensuing discussion, JAPAN emphasized that historical responsibility is not a pragmatic approach to setting emission reductions targets, and that the data on historical responsibility is not robust enough to serve as the basis for a legally binding agreement.
The US said the lateness of a submission should be defined and distinguished from the failure to submit.
 THAILAND and INDIA noted the importance of endogenous capacity building in developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA pointed to a convergence on the need to establish a work programme to address various approaches and PAPUA NEW GUINEA and COLOMBIA emphasized the need to do so at COP 17.
Adverse effects: The G-77/CHINA, NEPAL and others said developing countries are the most affected by climate change, and Annex I countries must implement their commitments relating to provision of financial resources and technology transfer.
A group of developed countries proposed adding a paragraph noting that a number of Parties reiterated their support for the AOSIS Protocol and welcomed the EU\'s proposed structure of a protocol.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that questions concerning equity cannot be answered with one dimensional formulae or “snapshots in time.”
On methodologies for estimation of greenhouse gas emissions, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that it is not ready to consider adoption of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, but that a study on the implications of adopting the guidelines would be useful.
IRAN favored continuation of the AIJ pilot phase and development of guidelines for it.
The EU highlighted the need for: comparability criteria to guide the negotiations; MRV that builds on experiences and practices under the Protocol; and a linkage with AWG-KP discussions.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, NIGERIA and others, said it would not be able to participate in this discussion at this time, as not all its issue convenors were available, and sufficient time was needed to consider the whole issue in context.
On paragraph 1, (establishment of the MCP), the EU, supported by GHANA, the US and AOSIS, preferred a "standing" Multilateral Consultative Committee reporting to the COP.
NEW ZEALAND noted the large number of technical issues that must still be resolved to provide parties with certainty heading into the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
On guidance to the GEF, CROATIA proposed a request to the GEF that its approach to enhancing capacity building should respond to the framework for capacity building in EITs.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for the full and fair implementation of the Durban package and the successful closure of the AWG-LCA upon reaching an agreed outcome pursuant to the BAP.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the need for an overarching agreement in Durban that is able to enhance ambition over time.
Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt of Sweden said the world has the economic and technical capability to mitigate climate change and that his government has allocated US$500 million over the next three years for adaptation.
In response to a question by the US, the Secretariat explained that the contingency budget for expert meetings taking place in 2015 was meant for any relevant decisions taken at this session.
SOUTH AFRICA discussed specific steps for establishing a NAMA registry, including the registration of developing country actions enabled through their own resources and verification at the national level, and presented ideas on MRV for finance and technology transfer.
The EU said the issue merited discussion, but it was unnecessary to highlight specific articles.
The ARAB GROUP proposed deleting two paragraphs, on requesting all actors to scale up and demonstrate efforts, cautioning against passing the burden to actors outside the Convention.
JAPAN emphasized that a new type of communication is unnecessary, given the existence of NDCs, NAPs and National Communications, and suggested the guidance could recommend items to be included without making them mandatory.
New Zealand, Canada, the EU and US supported the revised conclusions, stating that they provided "a balanced compromise."
INDONESIA highlighted insufficiency of voluntary funding.
The G-77/CHINA welcomed funding to facilitate implementing capacity building activities, and supported further efforts in this regard.
 Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, that: the legal status of the second commitment period is not negotiable; a five-year commitment period is needed to avoid locking in low levels of ambition; and that not all Annex I parties have submitted adequate, or any, information on QELROs.
AILAC said the section must include global goals on mitigation, adaptation and MOI, and that all text dealing with collective goals be considered.
The EU welcomed progress on options for the terms of service for lead reviewers and the training of experts.
 Regarding an MCP’s area of expertise, MOROCCO said that legal, economic, social and technical issues should be addressed.
SAINT LUCIA emphasized that rules are essential to ensure comparability of developed countries’ mitigation efforts and an adequate level of ambition.
INDIA and CHINA said that technology transfer was an important issue that was reflected in the "irrefutable intent" of the FCCC.
Opposing US climate policy, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK called for the entry into force of the Protocol.
Barbados, for AOSIS, and others supported addressing all four blocks at each session.
He said the contact group would have a mandate to complete work on unresolved issues with a short deadline and that open-ended drafting groups would be convened, chaired by “people we know well and trust.” Sudan, for the G-77/China, requested confirmation that the process would result in two separate documents and that no document that had not been agreed by the parties would be forwarded to the Heads of State and Government.
URUGUAY stressed the need for measures that reduce intensity of emissions from the sector.
The EU noted other linkages besides those in the Co-Chairs\' paper.
With EGYPT, he proposed further informal consultations.
The GAMBIA proposed considering agriculture through workshops and expert meetings.
NEW ZEALAND expressed concern over “difficult atmosphere” and attempts to renegotiate ministerial agreements.
IRAN underscored the benefits of economic diversification and stressed Parties 92 common but differentiated responsibilities.
Emphasizing that Durban should result in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for improving the effectiveness of the Kyoto Protocol by closing loopholes and ensuring its continuity by adopting ratifiable amendments for the second commitment period that will be provisionally applied pending entry into force.
AUSTRALIA, supported by AOSIS, suggested combining the clusters on MRV.
NORWAY and the EU \t\tsupported moving on with \t\tAWG ef bf bds work while addressing information gaps.
CANADA said that the linkage to Article 13 must be reviewed.
The EU, supported by MONACO, noted the need to specify ways to facilitate cooperation and stressed coordination of IPCC and FCCC activities through a joint working group.
The G-77/CHINA suggested that a draft decision text should be annexed to the SBI conclusions.
With Tuvalu, for the LDCs, he suggested addressing international transport.
Belize, for AOSIS, supported by COSTA RICA, MALAWI and the PHILIPPINES, proposed amendments, including, inter alia, encouraging UN specialized funds and agencies to support the development of modalities with wide participation by, and through technical meetings, among experts; and ensuring that the modalities are developed in time to be integrated into the transparency framework.
 \t\tSWEDEN urged other industrialized countries to match the EU 92s 2020 \t\tcommitments and welcomed the increasing engagement of US society, \t\tencouraging the US to take on binding emission reductions.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged conclusions on national adaptation plans to ensure the process can be launched as soon as possible.
 SAUDI ARABIA asked if the in-depth analysis of all communications would be completed by COP-2, and stressed the importance of knowing the status of current commitments before making a judgment on a protocol or other instrument.
The EU noted the importance of addressing the impact of carry over of surplus AAUs and LULUCF accounting rules on overall targets to avoid undermining environmental integrity.
NEW ZEALAND introduced a document on definitions for modalities and procedures for afforestation and reforestation (A&amp;R) projects, which combines Parties 92 submissions.
The US, supported by Colombia, proposed including the project-based mechanisms in a table or matrix to compare proposals and criteria for market mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND said the determination of respective capabilities depends on the task, such as reporting.
These include negotiations on the LDC Fund, the SCCF, \t\tnational communications from developing countries (non-Annex I Parties), \t\tand Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
In a closed meeting in the early afternoon, the G-77/CHINA said it was unwilling to negotiate on the current Chairs ef bf bd text.
 On 29 November, the SBI briefly addressed this agenda item and established a joint SBSTA/SBI contact group, co-chaired by Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK).
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said the group expects Annex B parties to reconsider their commitments, making every effort to increase them with a view to eliminating the pre-2020 mitigation gap.
The US said the choice on sinks will have an enormous impact on a number.
NAMIBIA announced its ratification of the Protocol, and a number of countries urged entry into force.
The US, with the eventual support of G-77/CHINA, rejected the compilation document and called on the four draft decisions to be presented in their entirety to the SBI.
Tuvalu, on behalf of AOSIS, called for future commitments \t\tunder Article 3.9, and said efforts to streamline the CDM should not \t\tcompromise its environmental integrity.
INDIA underscored the importance of working on, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, and to ensure that the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities are “fully suffused” in each item.
Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a workshop on common accounting rules to be held in Bangkok and indicated that it should be a full negotiating session.
The EU questioned how additionality could be ensured if Parties did not comply with Protocol Articles 5 (methodological issues) and 7 (communication of information).
The US and UK stated that the losses noted in this study did not mean actual losses in overall revenue from the baseline year, as revenues would actually increase considerably under all three scenarios.
TURKEY outlined actions in his \t\tcountry to reduce emissions and raise awareness of climate change.
Several parties, including NORWAY and SINGAPORE, supported inviting ICAO and the IMO to Bangkok, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION reminded delegates that the Convention aimed at stabilizing rather than eliminating greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
NORWAY supported employing a communications expert for producing text that is easily accessible to a broader audience.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said key elements of mitigation and transparency are missing from the Co-Chairs’ iteration.
Many countries highlighted linkages with work under the SBSTA and other APA items, with ARGENTINA noting that “metrics also include a political component.”
AOSIS underscored the need for a SIDS-specific mechanism.
The US expressed concern with the formulation’s reference to “equitable societal transformations across all scales and economies,” saying it was overly broad.
 The NETHERLANDS stated that a second national memorandum on climate change will be published in January 1996.
AUSTRALIA \t\tcautioned against Task Group micromanagement by the Plenary.
AUSTRALIA noted lack of agreement on whether the AWGs will meet in Copenhagen.
The UK noted that Bureau input might be needed on the IPCC’s future and on strengthening the Secretariat.
The EU saw this best placed in the agreement.
CHINA and others stressed that actions in these sectors should be in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
SAUDI ARABIA placed "identifying" and "consideration" in brackets together with the US-proposed reference to the FCCC.
Brazil, supported by Chile, for AILAC, suggested that developed countries “shall,” in their INDCs, communicate their financial support targets, and policies and measures for technology development and transfer and capacity building, taking into account national circumstances.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES, said technology transfer and financing should be a basis for discussions.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, suggested that Parties discuss the proposed draft decision further at COP-8.
Senegal, for the LDCs, with the PHILIPPINES, thanked the EU for their positive spirit that has allowed capacity building to be taken up at a higher level.
Lamenting that existing structures are disregarded in current discussions, and suggesting that a newly created fund will take a long time to mature, PAKISTAN urged making the AF deliver and said there are “no legal issues that cannot be overcome.”
This agenda item was considered by SBSTA on Thursday, 5 June, and in informal consultations facilitated by Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad and Tobago) and Terry Carrington (UK).
On the uses of a sectoral approach, Bangladesh, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), discussed various options including the development of tools and technologies to identify emission reduction potentials and barriers to reductions in certain sectors.
INDIA sought clarity on the nature of the Certificate on Emissions Reductions.
CHINA proposed deleting a \t\tfigure that shows the contribution of CCS as part of a mitigation \t\tportfolio, noting that the figure only refers to two scenario studies \t\tfor stabilization at 550 ppmv CO2.
JAPAN expressed hope that the CGE’s work will enhance national communications.
On support for the LDC Fund, the SBI adopted draft conclusions and a draft COP decision (FCCC/SBI/2001/L.40 and Add.1).
Tanzania, supported by Mali, Japan, the US, the Netherlands, Brazil and the UK, called for either a technical paper or a special report, as a priority for developing countries.
The EU and Norway opposed categorical application of flexibility.
THAILAND suggested that AGBM not spend time discussing emissions trading.
On Purposes, the G-77/CHINA proposed specifying that the text shall serve as a framework for implementation of FCCC Article 4.5 commitments, and stressed that the extent to which developing countries can implement their commitments under the FCCC depended on effective participation by developed countries.
On the guidelines under Article 8, delegates considered a US proposal, supported by the EU, to move Part III bis on the annual compilation and accounting of emission inventories and assigned amounts (AA) to the Article 7 guidelines.
 The PHILIPPINES noted that the G-77/China draft proposal would avoid inconsistency with the Convention.
BRAZIL stressed that the Paris Agreement is working to serve the Convention and its related instruments.
 This contact group, co-chaired by Robert Mason (UK) and Fadhel Lari (Kuwait), met to consider progress on the implementation of activities under decision 5/CP.7 (implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9).
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), emphasized the need for discussion regarding the share of proceeds for adaptation under the AWG-KP, maintaining that few changes are needed to the rules governing the flexible mechanisms and LULUCF.
CHINA suggested establishing an executive board to develop strategies and monitor activities on technology transfer, and proposed specialized funds under the Convention to support mitigation and adaptation.
The EU identified the long-term goal as the core, and highlighted: a goal for emission reductions in 2050 relative to 1990; the 2°C target; peaking emissions; and reviewing the long-term goal as science evolves.
The EU called for focusing on the core issues such as: emission reductions by developed countries; a machinery to enable NAMAs; a robust reporting system; tools and instruments to enable cost-efficient climate policies; review and compliance; as well as finance, technology and capacity-building support.
CHILE stressed the need to create development opportunities for all and encouraged a dynamic interpretation of the CBDR principle.
AUSTRALIA and others urged avoiding duplication of efforts.
CHINA cautioned against the proposed informal consultations, stating they could jeopardize the neutrality of the presidency.
CHINA said technology transfer under the Protocol should be additional to that under the FCCC.
BOLIVIA, with INDIA and CHINA, cautioned against internationally imposed criteria conflicting with national laws.
AUSTRALIA noted a joint submission on mid-term targets by developed countries to the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA could be helpful.
On the organization of the COP 92s work, the US, with others, supported convening high-level round tables.
Several developing countries supported the G-77/CHINA 92s call for the formation of a contact group at this session, while the US, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and CANADA preferred forming it at SB-13.
Switzerland, Canada and the EU agreed that the global goal should be qualitative, with Switzerland, New Zealand and Japan stressing it should focus on promoting resilience by integrating adaptation into national policies.
SOUTH AFRICA and others emphasized that the closing text of the AWG-LCA must encompass all issues under the AWG-LCA’s mandate, and that some issues require more elaboration.
On capacity building and technology transfer, JORDAN said that progress in combating climate change required financial assistance, transfer of environmentally-sound technologies, and the extension of technical assistance for capacity building.
KUWAIT highlighted the need to consider the diversity of NDC types in the features and ARGENTINA noted that this is important in the identification of specific information that needs to be provided.
Referring to the unique nature of the IPCC, the US highlighted the important role of WG Co-Chairs in communication of relevant products and that the proposed communications structure should not be independent from the WGs.
France, on behalf of the EU, and supported by Australia, said that Annex I Parties should not use JI to meet their present commitments.
CHINA, supported by several delegates, opposed any suggestion that the CDM could replace technology transfer under the FCCC.
Querying where financing would come from for the second option, whereby the TSU could be comprised of both developing and developed country institutions, the US, with Canada and others, preferred the first option, with the TSU hosted and managed by the country of the developed country WG/TF Co-Chair.
With other developed countries, the EU also supported a feasibility study on the legal issues identified in the Board’s report.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to engage in discussions on the important matter.
Australia, the EU, Norway and Switzerland emphasized the importance of framing Kyoto Protocol commitments in the context of a global legally-binding agreement.
PANAMA proposed a flexible approach to financing via funds or markets, or both, and suggested a technical paper on options for replenishing sources for a hypothetical REDD+ fund.
The EU emphasized the CDM as an important funding source for the Adaptation Fund.
AOSIS drew attention to the inaccuracies, under-reporting and procedural complications that make it inappropriate to credit retrospectively.
Stressing the need to reflect all parties’ views, CHINA highlighted the “constructive proposal” by the Philippines and said discussions on how to organize work in more concrete terms can take place once the agenda has been adopted.
SAUDI ARABIA supported a compliance system with \t\tlegally-binding consequences.
CANADA characterized JI as a “win-win” method for both developed and developing countries that can supply state of the art technologies.
JAPAN supported improving the existing mechanisms and creating new ones.
The NETHERLANDS highlighted its recent ef bf bdMake \t\tmarkets work for climate ef bf bd workshop.
They asked if the nominations for Vice-Presidents and the subsidiary bodies are still open, and added that they had asked to have OPEC countries represented on the Bureau.
Uganda, for the LDCs, advocated that governments mobilize resources from the private sector and described providing loans for adaptation as “immoral.”
In a paragraph on approaches to differentiation of commitments, AUSTRALIA added a proposal based on “projected” emission trends.
SOUTH AFRICA advocated a holistic and coherent approach to adaptation.
The EU said the COP agenda item on the SCF is the most appropriate space to discuss communications of indicative support.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund \t\tand called for an inclusive post-2012 negotiation process under the \t\tConvention and Protocol tracks.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, noted possible convergence on some issues.
A joint SBI-SBSTA contact group chaired by Jim Penman (UK) and Mark Mwandosya (Tanzania) was established to consider Part II of the guidelines.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, noted that the structure and language of the AOSIS draft protocol accords with the Convention.
 INDIA supported the Malaysia proposal for a forum, and noted that early structuring of the TAPs will help the implementation process.
The NETHERLANDS stated that such a suggestion was premature.
The EU said this should be elaborated further in the text.
SOUTH AFRICA urged that MRV should cover Annex I countries’ aggregate commitments and reiterated the call for a technical panel on comparability of efforts.
On technology transfer, the US identified convergence on the CDM’s role in facilitating technology transfer.
The G-77/CHINA called on delegates not to be distracted from the COP\'s principal task of implementing the Convention.
VENEZUELA asked whether the group should open this debate and said there will be a Bureau meeting in due course.
Several supported QELROs in the AOSIS protocol.
BAHAMAS and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented the budgetary constraints affecting the Executive Committee.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for focusing on parties willing to enter into a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period and exploring whether and how their conditionalities have been met or can be met.
AOSIS said a credible outcome in Durban must consist of: a second commitment period of no longer than five years; ratifiable amendments to the Protocol and its Annex B; binding commitments in the form of QELROs; closing loopholes in LULUCF accounting rules; and increased mitigation ambition by Annex I parties.
 BANGLADESH supported a legally binding instrument for adaptation and the development of a vulnerability index.
The conclusions also suggested that the list of projects submitted by non-Annex I Parties be brought to the attention of GEF and "as appropriate" other financing agencies, and required the contact group’s Co-Chairs to prepare a framework on elements of a draft decision, based on proposals by the G-77/CHINA and the EU.
The EU clarified that their intention is “not to step away from the Protocol,” but to build on it.
The Gambia, for LDCs, requested: a decision on the long-term global goal for emission reductions; assessment on the adequacy of the long-term global goal under the Review process; adoption of common accounting rules; assistance for developing countries to make pledges, including development of a handbook for preparing and implementing NAMAs; a decision on long-term finance with reference to the GCF; MRV of support; and mid-term finance to 2020.
The EU identified the elements text, rather than the decision on INDCs, as “the right place” to address climate finance.
JAPAN suggested that Parties using GWPs utilize the GWP guidelines adopted at COP-2, but preferred reporting on GHGs gas-by-gas.
COSTA RICA reported on the outcome of the third meeting of the Cartagena dialogue on progressive action where priority areas for a balanced package had been identified.
Guatemala, for AILAC, suggested tracking progress in achieving developed countries’ commitments to provide new, additional, predictable and adequate support to developing countries.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), said the Kyoto Protocol is a universal agreement that crystallizes the determination of all UN countries, except for one, to face climate change based on equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized participants 92 reference to the information gap, noting that the lack of information and data exists at many levels.
AUSTRALIA clarified that the intention behind their proposal for national schedules was not to reduce the level of ambition by developed countries but to drive ambition higher by introducing a flexible platform whereby countries can contribute to a common low-carbon future.
The US, with HUNGARY, emphasized the need for coordination between EITs and donor agencies.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said stricter adherence to existing guidelines, rather than full-scale revision, may be needed.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA asked whether, as indicated by the IPCC Chair\'s summary, it was impossible to stabilize atmospheric concentrations at 450 ppm equivalent.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for more contributions to the LDC Fund and encouraged the GEF to provide support for other elements of the LDC work programme.
MAURITIUS stressed infrastructure for enhancing resilience and highlighted the need for sector-specific plans.
The US noted the need for better reporting on technology transfer.
BRAZIL expressed hope for constructive negotiations that could yield an outcome.
JAMAICA and BURKINA FASO highlighted the special needs of least developed countries.
COLOMBIA supported sub-national \t\tapproaches.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, said the proposals were inconsistent with the Convention and the BAP and did not consider the needs of LDCs.
 NEW ZEALAND, Simon Upton, Minister for the Environment, called for a “global least cost approach” and criticized an approach based on individual national measures as producing disparity in abatement costs.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND disagreed with the EU proposal to delete language stating that issues not covered in the special report will be included in the TAR.
The EU suggested that non-Annex I Parties confirm in writing how a project would help it achieve sustainable development and stressed that the project activity should be consistent with all international agreements to which the Parties involved belong.
On sharing information, knowledge and lessons learned, CHINA and IRAN emphasized the knowledge gap on the implementation of adaptation.
The EU expressed its preference for: one body with two branches; a powerful Chair; enforcement measures applying only to Annex I countries; and facilitative measures applying to the obligations of all Parties.
The G-77/CHINA identified the need for: clear objectives; institutional mechanisms; provision of finance, technology and capacity building; and adaptation activities, insurance, and the fulfillment of developed country commitments under the Convention.
On future action, AOSIS and Japan said all countries will need to be involved in mitigation.
SAMOA said current models do not provide a solid basis for policy-making.
SINGAPORE urged ICAO and IMO members to learn from “the way the Paris Agreement was reached,” namely “how we dealt with differentiation and the importance of a transparent process.”
 \t\tPenelope Beckles, Trinidad and Tobago 92s Minister of Public Utilities and \t\tthe Environment, stressed that small island developing States (SIDS) \t\thave already been suffering the negative impacts of climate change due \t\tto their geographical location, lack of technical and financial \t\tresources, and the vulnerability of their biodiversity to climate \t\tchange.
The EU highlighted linkages between finance and technology and suggested a toolbox on financing, and said carbon markets and enabling environments are essential.
BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, called for commitments based on an e2 80 9cindexed e2 80 9d global carbon budget divided among all parties according to historical responsibility, ecological footprint, state of development and capabilities.
The EU said the issue should be seen in the wider context of finance and, with others, supported postponing discussions.
Switzerland called for specific time frames, \t\twhile Japan, supported by the US, noted budget and other limitations and \t\tstressed the need to focus on a five-year programme of work.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, NORWAY, the US, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and CANADA supported confining the scope of the draft decision to mitigation, with a limited approach to adaptation, such as where mitigation actions deliver adaptation co-benefits.
The EU \t\tnoted that adaptation is a short- to medium-term response to climate \t\tvariability that cannot counter the long-term impacts of climate change.
PERU, speaking for a number of countries, called for focused discussion on outstanding issues.
The EU said common accounting rules are key to increasing ambition and ensuring transparency.
JAPAN said mid-term goals should be addressed under mitigation, and that a shared vision should focus on a long-term global goal.
JAPAN, BULGARIA, ETHIOPIA, KENYA, the EU and BRAZIL urged countries to ratify the Protocol.
The US said the Cancun Agreements do not establish a process for narrowing the ambition gap and this should be considered in the 2013-2015 review.
Technology: On technology information centre(s), the G-77/CHINA requested more time to reach a group position.
A contact group and informal consultations were co-chaired by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Barbados).
SOUTH AFRICA, with CHINA and INDIA, VENEZUELA and SINGAPORE, stressed that this sub-paragraph of the BAP addresses “various approaches,” not just markets.
The EU said the starting point is the Kyoto Protocol, with its facilitative and enforcement elements and that this issue is not limited to parties in Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU said its members are on course to return CO2 emissions to 1990 levels by 2000.
INDONESIA and UGANDA sought assistance with capacity building.
The US expressed concern over the decline in the number and magnitude of contributions to the IPCC Trust Fund.
On REDD+, NORWAY and ECUADOR reported on key outstanding issues: financing; scope of a REDD+ mechanism; connection between the national and sub-national levels; and MRV of safeguards.
BANGLADESH said cooperation should focus on priority areas such as agriculture and energy security, and underscored support for development of endogenous technologies, risk management and insurance.
Chile, for Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), expressed flexibility, suggesting option 1 with elements of option 3.
Mali, for the G-77/China, outlined elements of the group e2 80 99s proposal: a pre-2020 ambition work programme; an accelerated implementation process; an adaptation TEP; and a high-level engagement component.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, with the UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
Answering BRAZIL e2 80 99s question on the role of certified emission reduction units supporting France in achievement of its target under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s first commitment period, he noted they amounted to 2% of France e2 80 99s assigned amount unit budget.
 SINGAPORE, JAPAN, the EU, ARGENTINA and CHILE welcomed work by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), with CHILE calling for consistency with the Paris Agreement rulebook.
The EU recommended completing the work on including international bunker emissions in national inventories before negotiating the second commitment period.
Interest in socioeconomic effects continued to grow, with SBSTA tying socioeconomic analysis to evaluation of specific proposals for new commitments, including the AOSIS draft protocol.
The EU suggested that the role of the Board lies in the accreditation and random checking of Operational Entities.
The US proposed, with many others, a workshop, opposed by the LMDCs as premature.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized improving and extending TEMs until the mitigation ambition gap is closed, and indicated their outputs should include: updated technical papers; a dynamic online e2 80 9cmenu e2 80 9d of policy options; focus on co-benefits of actions, barriers to implementation and strategies to overcome them; and a synthesis for policy makers.
TURKEY emphasized the importance of adaptation \t\tand GHANA underscored the need for immediate progress on technology \t\ttransfer in the context of mitigation and adaptation.
She said that, under technology, the EU cannot accept anything that interferes with the IPR regime.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized that CDM funding should be over and above ODA, GEF and other financial commitments.
 \t\tThe EU stressed that as mitigation can \t\tprovide net benefits, including in the power sector, the challenge is \t\tnot so much technical or economic but political and institutional.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a fully ratifiable amendment to Annex B with full commitments expressed as QELROs in simple numbers.
Regarding economic diversification, SAUDI ARABIA highlighted links to risk management and AOSIS supported identification of options to enhance capacity for diversification.
NICARAGUA highlighted uncertainty in the costs of adaptation and questioned the ability of market mechanisms to help vulnerable countries.
The EU highlighted monitoring and research, the importance of dialogue between donors and recipients and, with the NETHERLANDS, providing for adaptation within national and sectoral strategies.
The US stressed that the objective of this process was to promote the prospects of ratifying the Protocol.
AOSIS called for more technical work before COP 23 and suggested the Co-Facilitators produce informal notes including a skeleton of the main headings of possible COP 24 decisions.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a series of in-session TEMs in 2015-2017, AOSIS, supported by many parties, called for the process to be organized e2 80 9cat least twice a year during the period 2015-2020 in areas with high mitigation potential.
SWITZERLAND objected to a US proposal to delete the term "equitable" in describing the process of technology transfer, given the diversity of characteristics of developing countries and regions.
KENYA expressed worries about \t\tthe ownership of scenarios developed by other institutions, and \t\tassociated budgetary implications.
CHINA said that the increasing emphasis on the private sector as a source of finance would lead to unpredictable funding, stressing that finance should be provided by the public sector and constitute at least 0.5-1% of developed countries’ GDP.
She called for a sufficient number of meetings with funding for LDCs and SIDS, as well as for clear milestones.
The EU expressed concern that “evaluation” by a permanent forum would infringe on parties’ sovereign rights.
CAMBODIA expressed concern with incremental cost requirements as a barrier to adaptation for LDCs.
CHINA and NEW ZEALAND shared views on processes under the Convention facilitating the identification and assessment of risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems.
The US proposed submission of non-Annex I national communications every six years, with updates every other year, and supported the use of the 2006 IPCC guidelines.
Tuvalu, for LDCs, called for an amendment to the Kyoto Protocol that would be ratifiable and provisionally enter into force to avoid a gap.
Bolivia, for ALBA, underlined the need to avoid renegotiating the Paris Agreement and to reflect the Convention’s principles, including equity and CBDR.
NORWAY called for a COP-9 decision on socioeconomic, environmental and biodiversity impacts of A&amp;R CDM projects.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized that outcomes of the SED include support of the 1.5     c2 b0C long-term global goal and expressed dismay that the actions of a few countries prevented the communication of these findings to the COP.
ALGERIA opposed their use for non-Annex I countries.
TURKEY, an observer State, called for its removal from the group of UNFCCC Annex II Parties and requested to be considered an Annex I Party with special circumstances.
Having identified the key outstanding issues, Chair Shibata set up an informal contact group that will be chaired by Patrick Szell (UK).
The \t\tEU emphasized coordination with other post-2012 processes, especially \t\tthe Article 9 review, and AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others proposed \t\tmentioning the Bali roadmap.
In response, BOLIVIA proposed naming the item “REDD and forest-related actions.”
The EU stressed that it is firmly committed to the Protocol and called for its elements to be integrated into a future agreement.
With IRAN, he said that if questions could be indicated in the reports of ERTs, sovereign states should also have the possibility to make submissions against another Party.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of demonstrating that work is progressing given the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement, and called for accelerating the implementation of pre-2020 actions, and enhancing MOI provision.
On preamble, general and objective, Guatemala, for AILAC, with NORWAY, said the agreement should include references to gender issues, intergenerational matters and, with CHILE, the PHILIPPINES and MEXICO, human rights.
The EU and Switzerland emphasized the importance of historical data sets.
The EU agreed that such issues should be clarified before setting targets.
He also stated the intention of the EU member States to ratify the Protocol in 2002.
AUSTRALIA noted the goal should reflect the collective ambitions of all parties, cover all emission sources and sinks, have a base year and a target year, and also include a mid-term goal.
CHINA noted there had been no objections to this proposal, and cautioned against the Co-Chairs coming forward with their interpretation of the common ground in the form of a revised co-chairs e2 80 99 text.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed: the importance of advancing, and maintaining a balance among, all elements of the Paris Agreement; the need to move to textual negotiations by COP 23; and NDCs as a key vehicle for delivering enhanced action under the Paris Agreement.
 During closing statements, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: the adoption of a decision on response measures; establishment, in Paris, of the necessary institutions to enhance capacity building; and enhancement of information provided in the IAR on support to developing countries.
MALAYSIA said countries should not reopen negotiations on the Bonn Agreements.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the EU said they are not ready to agree to a contact group at this time.
AOSIS opposed technical assessment processes for individual national communications.
INDIA and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed public sources as the main source.
IPCC Chair Pachauri \t\t\tappealed to delegates to accept wording on “a moderately increased \t\t\tcontribution.” Spain and Italy proposed “could make a moderately \t\t\tincreased contribution.” The US expressed disappointment at the \t\t\tweakening of the bullet point regarding nuclear energy and asked how \t\t\tdelegates could accept modeling results for renewable energy and not \t\t\tfor nuclear energy.
On the modalities section, responding to several parties’ concern that technical and/or synthesis papers “should be utilized starting in the second half of 2017 and in 2018” had not been agreed, the EU and SOUTH AFRICA suggested generally recognizing such papers’ value for future sessions.
The US supported observer and private sector engagement with the SCF and GEF.
With JAPAN, she questioned why the issue of scale is specifically raised in the context of LULUCF projects, arguing that the institutional infrastructure will ensure that LULUCF projects are additional, measurable and verifiable.
The EU highlighted key elements for consideration, including: technology to enable mitigation and adaptation; a technology action framework; institutional arrangements for the framework comprising a technology panel or committee; and technology action plans, which the panel or committee could develop.
The US said new proposals should be assessed against their capacity to generate private sector funds.
On the format of the roundtables, the AFRICAN GROUP called for prioritizing issues where work is not sufficiently advanced before COP 23.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with slow progress in fulfilling the group’s mandate under Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I further commitments).
A number of Parties, including the G-77/CHINA, EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, US and JAPAN, said the text was a good basis for their work, and stressed the need for a balanced approach.
The US encouraged the TFB to work constructively with the UNFCCC on capacity building in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, supported by Ethiopia, for the LDCs, and others, emphasized ensuring understanding of the potential consequences of policies and measures on developing country economies, and creating a system to minimize and prevent negative impacts on developing countries.
The US underlined that an agreement already exists that addresses most of the issues and called for discussions to be based on the Copenhagen Accord.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that emissions must peak by 2015 to avoid catastrophic impacts for vulnerable States such as SIDS, and to minimize the risks of irreversible impacts.
Maldives, for LDCs, complained of funding delays for implementing NAPAs.
  During the contact group, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, rejected proposals for differentiation among non-Annex I parties.
On elements, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for further reflection of the financial and other costs of adaptation efforts and actions, noting that some developing countries undertake adaptation actions without MOI and this information could be useful.
SINGAPORE, PAKISTAN and INDONESIA supported voluntary mitigation actions by developing countries and, with NORWAY, ICELAND, JAPAN and SWITZERLAND, supported REDD.
WG III Co-Chair Davidson stressed that quality is a given parameter, and, with the UK and BRAZIL, emphasized the importance of completing the report by COP-13 for its findings to reach policymakers.
BOLIVIA emphasized that an aggregate number is needed prior to determining assigned amounts.
On  , Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed supporting improved quality of information over time, calling for full operationalization of capacity building for transparency.
The EU said that the first part would fit as preambular language in the Copenhagen agreement, while text on a global long-term goal and reviews would be in the operational part.
On \t\t\tcoordination during the adaptation planning and design process, good \t\t\tpractices included examples of developing spatial planning \t\t\tstrategies that include multi-sectoral activities and specific tools \t\t\tto enhance capacity to deal with extreme weather events at the \t\t\tcommunity level in the UK, and developing integrated adaptive \t\t\tstrategies involving stakeholders from different sectors in Ghana.
INDIA, KUWAIT, CHILE and CHINA objected to a reference to the need for information "in evolving commitments for all Parties."
 Parties reacted to guiding questions proposed by co-facilitators Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives) on: options for ensuring environmental integrity and sustainable development; functioning of the corresponding adjustment; reach of the guidance; and managing relationships between Paris Agreement Article 6.2 and Article 6.4 (establishing a mechanism to contribute to the mitigation of GHG emissions and support sustainable development), and between Article 6.2 and Article 4.13 (on accounting for NDCs).
Delegates discussed how to move forward in addressing: the establishment of an LDC expert group; support for the preparation of National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs); and guidance to the LDC fund.
The session was chaired by Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe (Zimbabwe), who noted that Vice-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) and rapporteur Teodora Obradovik-Grncarovska (Macedonia) were unable to attend the session.
 The idea of emissions trading to achieve flexibility was supported by delegations such as NORWAY, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and FRANCE.
The EU and Japan announced their Protocol ratifications just prior to the WSSD.
 \t\tBASE YEAR OF CROATIA:
As part of the latter, at the request of the COP, three regional workshops and one expert meeting for small island developing states (SIDS) were held to facilitate information exchange and integrated assessments to assist in identifying specific adaptation needs and concerns.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the potential of private financing, calling for enabling environments and reducing investment risks.
Supporting the inclusion of this reference, the EU, with Australia, noted that decision 17/CP.8 (guidelines for the preparation on non-Annex I national communications) refers to the "frequency of" submissions.
AOSIS outlined its proposal for possible elements for an LBI.
  On the NWP (FCCC/SBSTA/2008/2-5, MISC.3 &amp; Adds.1-2), the US stressed the importance of improving parties’ oversight of calls for action and action pledges.
The EU proposed complementing NAMAs with market mechanisms, and elaborated on sectoral crediting and trading for developing countries with no-lose targets below business-as-usual baselines.
AUSTRALIA supported taking stock of the information provided during the recent workshops so as to evaluate where SBSTA can "add value."
The EU said the IPCC Special Report and country specific data should provide the basis for future discussions and decisions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a reference to science on keeping the average temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
SWITZERLAND noted its submission on a funding scheme based on common but differentiated responsibilities, and the “polluter pays” principle.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported organizing ministerial roundtables in Doha.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need for: balance between mitigation and adaptation; and finance to ensure ambition is enhanced, highlighting public long-term finance and not transferring the financing burden to developing countries.
The US said delegates had agreed on the non- judicial nature of an MCP and “resolving questions with regard to implementation” seemed to contradict this point.
Highlighting focus on the adoption of “deep emission reductions” by Annex I parties and that many aspects of the amendment proposal are inconsistent with the Convention, INDIA called for proceeding with work “without sidestepping.” COP/MOP President Hedegaard noted India’s concerns but said that informal consultations on the proposals will continue.
The EU stressed the need to ensure that NAPA implementation enhances synergies with other UN conventions.
These proposals received further clarification at the Bangkok meeting and the US outlined in detail for the first time their proposal on a common approach to MRV.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed convening a technical workshop on comparability before Doha.
ECUADOR and VENEZUELA suggested having parties explain their specific proposals.
The EU highlighted mitigation potential of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), fossil fuel subsidies, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with CROATIA, said spillover effects on all parties, particularly developing country parties, should be considered.
On designated operational entities, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, opposed by NORWAY, introduced a reference to conflict of interest.
The US discussed the current capacity of the IPCC to undertake further methodological work, the structure envisioned by IPCC to accommodate the short- and long-term needs of the Parties, and the expertise required to support work.
 Delegates requested the SBSTA informal group, chaired by Jim Penman (UK), to also consider the Croatian proposal regarding its cap for forest management.
e2 80 9d The LDCs, with TURKEY, preferred e2 80 9cprovisions.
CHILE stressed the need to call on national governments to provide financial resources to national meteorological authorities.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, requested time to consider the text, \t\t\tand the meeting was adjourned.
Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that the COP Bureau “formulation” was used to form the review group, excluding the LDCs.
GERMANY stated that apparently considerable doubt remained on the German position, in light of comments by China.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and ARGENTINA stressed the need to link adaptation to MOI.
Chair Estrada, opposed by CANADA, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN, said submissions on this issue made by Saudi Arabia and Iran could be compiled in a miscellaneous document for consideration by COP-8.
Brazil, supported by Australia, the US and Switzerland, suggested noting health co-benefits of mitigation policies.
The EU underscored the need to study \t\timplications of different carbon dioxide stabilization levels and \t\temissions pathways.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that the term of the TEC be extended by a year.
The EU asked for clarification on what the “evaluation” function of the proposed permanent forum would entail.
MARSHALL ISLANDS urged parties to identify mitigation potential and specific implementation barriers, instead of simply outlining existing mitigation efforts.
The US presented a proposal by Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the US on clustering around: guiding concepts; contributions/commitments/actions; institutions; and transparency and reporting processes.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that since most AIJ projects are financed through official funds like ODA and the GEF, credit certification should be treated carefully.
The US, Pakistan and Kazakhstan supported the proposal made by Turkey and this issue was deferred to SB-14.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, IRAN and OMAN, expressed surprise at the GEF’s decision to stop financial support for national communications for some non-Annex I countries, particularly the oil producing ones, stressing the need to resolve the issue at this session.
The US said the private sector should become the main source of funding and the EU underlined the role of the carbon market, innovative financing, and leveraging private investments.
The EU stressed that SB-16 should agree on future work and encouraged delegates to agree on definitions.
SAMOA requested clarification on how to indicate demonstrable progress by 2005 if the Protocol has not already entered into force by that time.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, expressed hope for progress on the CER registry’s transparency, double counting, and CDM loan schemes.
Referring to the SBSTA-17 conclusions containing a provision on this matter, Co-Chair Sue Barrell asked the G-77/CHINA whether it was necessary to include a request to the SBI to examine additional GEF guidance on this issue in the conclusions.
 PERU felt that the basic aspects being discussed regarding inputs are: priority criterion; a "middle of the road" stance as to whether analysis and assessments should occur simultaneously with negotiations; information on the economic impacts for developing countries of Annex I Parties adopting emissions reductions, and the definition of the Parties\' positions with regard to contributions.
On actions necessary to meet needs and concerns of developing countries, the US and the EU proposed following the language of FCCC Article 4.8.
The UK referred to a Chair and Chair-elect, and clarified that the term limit should not apply retroactively, given that the IPCC is now in the middle of an assessment cycle.
SAMOA expressed concerns over developing an overly-complex institutional structure for the future technology framework.
BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA underscored the importance of rights and participation of local populations.
BULGARIA said her country has enacted legislation on mitigation, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The US also supported a time frame for reviewing and updating commitments.
Two \t\tadditional paragraphs proposed by the EU also caused some disagreement.
On 28 November, SBSTA addressed this issue, pursuant to Decision 1/CP.16 to establish a Technology Mechanism comprising a Technology Executive Committee (TEC) and a Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN), and decided to establish a contact group chaired by Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK).
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, urged explicit reference to the group 92s submissions in the revised text as a separate section, to ensure that it provides for the needs of the LDCs.
AILAC suggested, and parties agreed, that the co-facilitators identify the commonalities among the proposals and synthesize them.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the importance of: increased ambition on mid-term reductions; inclusion of emissions from the international aviation and maritime transport sectors; fast-track and long-term financing that includes the private sector and carbon market; and action on a performance-based mechanism for REDD.
 FRANCE: Pierre Chemillier spoke on behalf of Corinne Lepage, Minister of the Environment, calling it a duty to adopt the precautionary principle.
Uganda, for the LDCs, proposed convening a short plenary to review progress on Wednesday.
The EU proposed objectives relating to: information exchange and experience; facilitating cooperation between Parties; and facilitating assessment of demonstrable progress.
The UMBRELLA GROUP and the G-77/CHINA preferred setting an \t\tearlier time, whereas the EU preferred a more 93flexible 94 arrangement \t\tthat would allow for later meetings.
The EU asked for comments on the remainder of the text.
The Gambia, for LDCs, welcomed conclusions related to the Adaptation Fund.
The EU said it wanted to see more coherence between the accounting elements in Articles 6.2 and 6.4.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the PHILIPPINES, ARGENTINA, NICARAGUA and other developing countries called for establishing a spin-off group on adaptation, noting the need to further consider national adaptation plans for developing countries that are not LDCs.
The PHILIPPINES, with the US, supported investigating connections between climate change and extreme weather events, while NIGERIA stressed the need for preparedness to cope with such events in developing countries.
  Bolivia, for the G-77/China, Ecuador, for the LMDCs, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and Sudan, for the African Group, expressed dissatisfaction with the new iteration of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft text on INDCs, lamenting that it fails to reflect the views of all parties.
SWEDEN supported considering the suggestions by Iran and Zimbabwe and involving developing countries in research and development efforts.
On adaptation and mitigation options and responses, the US, supported by New Zealand, Germany, the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia, suggested that authors should consider the same factors for both adaptation and mitigation.
The US, while retaining the "no appeal" option, said any appeal body should be limited to overriding decisions.
The US said multiple ways to achieve robust accounting are recognized in the Durban decisions.
ARGENTINA said no aspect of the FCCC and the Protocol limited its ability to raise the issue of voluntary commitments.
KUWAIT opposed sectoral approaches reflected in the proposals on sectoral crediting and trading.
AOSIS identified four basic functions and the institutional arrangements to carry them out.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need for transparency and expressed concerns over statements by the UNFCCC Executive Secretary regarding biofuels and transport.
NEW ZEALAND expressed a readiness \t\tto take on new quantitative emissions reductions and also identified the \t\tneed to consider new types of commitments.
The \t\tNetherlands and the US called for broad participation in the expert \t\tmeeting.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed inclusion of systems for the measurement of GHGs and other atmospheric components, reference to satellite systems for data collection, and distinction between anthropogenic and natural climate change variations.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS, NORWAY, MICRONESIA and INDIA favored deferring consideration of this issue and requesting Parties to submit comments.
NORWAY inserted a paragraph on prioritizing results-based payments for verifiable emission reductions.
JAPAN then reported on work of the Climate Technology Initiative (CTI) to strengthen National Action Plans, increase use of existing climate friendly technology and improve new technology.
NORWAY highlighted its proposal to auction emission allowances to fund adaptation.
Chair Gamede identified the two outstanding LDC issues: guidance to the LDC Fund; and status of implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.9 (LDCs).
Stressing the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, CHINA said the climate regime should take into account the rising energy demands that will occur as the quality of life in developing countries improves.
On annual inventories of national greenhouse gas data from Annex I Parties, the EU called for a single document containing all available data from Annex I Parties and urged Parties that had not done so to submit their inventories.
On the global stocktake, the AFRICAN GROUP stressed the need to operationalize equity.
G77/CHINA urged the deletion of the entire section.
In the afternoon, delegates considered a proposal by AOSIS on an international mechanism to address loss and damage.
INDIA, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred using the Chair 92s text.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by MALAYSIA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, MICRONESIA, IRAN, INDIA, the PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, NIGERIA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA and THAILAND, emphasized that all sections of Article 4.1 must be considered equally and in an integrated manner.
With the US, he said IPCC should evaluate the consequences of limiting activities that can be included.
EGYPT and others noted \t\tthe need to involve developing countries.
SOUTH AFRICA called for further discussion on: phasing out fossil fuel subsidies; supporting technology transfer; encouraging local innovation; and involving women and youth.
BRAZIL suggested the agreement establish a process for the stocktaking, with inputs deriving from existing processes under the Convention, such as the review of the adequacy of finance; and output timed at least one year before parties submit revised NDCs.
\t\tNorway, the EU and the G-77/China noted that consideration of ocean \t\tstorage is premature.
NORWAY said it would be premature to draw conclusions from the pilot phase and proposed the establishment of an AIJ forum at SBSTA’s December 1996 meeting.
Stressing that adaptation is of greater concern to Central American countries than mitigation, HONDURAS noted its concern about the amount of funding budgeted for CDM activities.
 The US proposed, in light of Germany\'s efforts in organizing the Conference and the leadership of the President, that the Conference should designate this decision as \'The Berlin Mandate.\'
 PERU has completed its inventory with assistance from the US, but it will be difficult to continue commitments under Article 4.1 without financial and technical assistance from Annex I Parties.
 An afternoon contact group, chaired by Stephen Cornelius (UK) and Robert Bamfo (Ghana), focused on consideration of the need for further guidance on safeguards.
JAPAN suggested standard operational procedures for AIJ projects, monitoring and revision and supported the workshop on methodologies.
CHILE, the LDCs, TURKEY and PALAU called for anchoring the GCF in the 2015 agreement.
JAPAN called for legal clarification of the terms “developed country parties” and “developing country parties” in the Bali Action Plan.
The EU also requested more budget information about the \t\t\tITL, and Switzerland said resource issues would need to be \t\t\tconsidered.
Chile, for AILAC, called for a collective commitment towards low-carbon growth.
SWITZERLAND and the US expressed their preference for suspending rather than closing the APA session.
VENEZUELA, for Bolivia, Cuba and Paraguay, expressed concerns with offsetting.
The US stressed the need to work on budgetary issues to ensure that its contributions are used to support the UNFCCC process.
She proposed replacing “the need for a channel” with “the existence of a channel” and also suggested, supported by TURKEY and others, replacing reference to non-Annex I parties with reference to parties, highlighting that all parties, not just non-Annex I parties, could suffer from impacts and consequences of response measures.
BAHRAIN and others highlighted time constraints in reaching an agreement.
NEW ZEALAND expressed optimism on the agriculture work programme on mitigation and adaptation.
INDIA warned that discount factors are arbitrary.
MEXICO, with KUWAIT, underlined uncertainty over the nature of NAMAs.
HONDURAS, SURINAME, COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, TUVALU, GUATEMALA, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, GUYANA and PAKISTAN supported the proposal.
PARAGUAY said technology transfers should not in any way be discriminatory, and should not exclude local technologies.
On the facilitative nature, the US drew attention to her proposal for a multilateral consultative process.
This was supported by the Russian Federation, the EU and Australia.
Emphasizing inclusive, transparent and democratic negotiations, BOLIVIA observed that the preparatory work for COP 16 and COP/MOP 6 should respect the separate negotiating tracks, mandates and outcomes of the AWG- LCA and AWG-KP.
The EU expressed regret with the African Group’s proposal, highlighting that it is not realistic for one contact group to work faster than another.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the need for an appropriate enabling environment for capacity building.
SAINT LUCIA said that progress is measured to know: “what the atmosphere sees,” and what individual countries are doing.
CHINA called for reflecting the linkages between the collective aspects of mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that P&amp;Ms should not have adverse impacts on developing country Parties.
SWITZERLAND suggested a global carbon dioxide levy of US$2 per tonne on all fossil fuel emissions, with an exception for less developed countries.
The EU said the AIJ experience gained since COP-1 can provide valuable guidance on questions of flexibility mechanisms in the Protocol.
The AFRICAN GROUP identified intellectual property rights as a major barrier and said adaptation does not attract private sector investment.
AOSIS said that Parties should not distract from Protocol implementation, noting the CDM will assist sustainable growth with climate protection.
BARBADOS said increasing participation through increased pledges is vital, stressing that the issue is not about a participation gap but an ambition gap.
BRAZIL inquired about the French and Moroccan Presidencies’ and co-chairs’ ideas about how agenda item 8 could be addressed.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called on all Annex I parties to work towards the same goal.
On adaptation communications, the EIG, Maldives, for AOSIS, the LDCs, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, supported a call for focused submissions.
ICELAND said single projects, such as a large industrial plant, have a greater proportional impact on emissions in smaller countries, affecting their ability to meet emissions targets.
Guyana, for GRULAC, congratulated the Chairs and Rapporteur of the ADP on their election, adding that they were “pleased” to be part of the leadership of the ADP, and offered the support and cooperation of GRULAC.
Guidance to an operating entity of the financial mechanism on the LDC Fund remained the outstanding issue in consultations towards the end of the first week.
AOSIS expressed concern that a poor message will be sent if exemptions are listed when the Protocol is adopted.
 \t\tThe EU identified a strong degree of consensus on certain building \t\tblocks, including the need for deeper absolute emission reduction \t\tcommitments for developed countries; measurable and incentivized action \t\tby developing countries; adaptation; technology and enhancing the carbon \t\tmarket.
The G-77/CHINA said the Durban Platform: must ensure strong linkages between mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation; and include the principles of equity and CBDR.
The EU stressed sending a signal to the private sector on the need to e2 80 9cshift the trillions e2 80 9d to low-carbon, climate-resilient development.
JAPAN proposed the annual submission of inventories using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines and enhancing the reporting frequency to every two years, with full national communications to be submitted with longer intervals.
The US, with the Russian Federation, addressed the issue of late payment of dues, seeking information on existing practices in other UN forums.
JORDAN objected to references to market mechanisms.
 The US said that he had amendments that he had held in abeyance, but in view of the amendments made by the G-77 and China and AOSIS, he felt compelled to submit and distribute these amendments at this stage.
The EC said a similar approach was used within the EU, where a common model is applied to data from Member States, in addition to projections at the national level.
Regarding draft conclusions on assessing the status of implementation of Article 4.9 (LDCs), TANZANIA, for the LDCs, objected to reference that the SBI expressed satisfaction at the progress achieved so far in implementing the LDC work programme.
INDIA, CHINA and BRAZIL recommended inclusion of a clear definition on assigned amounts, and, opposed by the US, suggested deleting the existing reference to assigned amount units.
On nuclear energy in the CDM, GREECE and TUVALU opposed inclusion.
MALI highlighted that “international consultation and analysis” implies a sequence of how the process should be carried out.
BRAZIL said the agreement should enhance current obligations while finding e2 80 9ccreative ways to indicate that there will be actions from everyone.
On their proposal, Spain, for the EU, highlighted, inter alia: enhanced reporting of capacity building best practices through national communications in order to enable monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the capacity building framework; and the indicative list of items to consider for further implementation of decision 2/CP.7 (capacity building in developing countries).
On transparency, Co-Facilitator Andrew Rakestraw (US) informed that discussions had focused on the “preliminary materials document” prepared by the co-facilitators.
The US noted that the 2020 finance goal was made in the context of meaningful mitigation action for 2020, questioning whether those parties calling for mid-term finance commitments would also take on mid-term mitigation commitments.
A contact group co-chaired by Fadhel Lari (Kuwait) and Robert Mason (UK) will consider this item and prepare draft conclusions.
On the draft conclusions on cooperation with relevant international organizations, (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.7), the EU and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA inquired about the joint project on capacity building between the UN agencies and the Secretariat, noting that Parties were not aware of the details.
Bart Stoffer, US, presented on \t\t\tinvestments in low and zero emissions technology.
COLOMBIA, supported by GRENADA, the PHILIPPINES and BARBADOS, called for a joint discussion of emission reductions by all Annex I countries.
The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC emphasized gender-sensitive and community-based adaptation.
JAPAN \t\tproposed reconsidering the idea at COP 16.
 JAPAN said provisions must incorporate measures that lead to technology transfer, AIJ and review mechanisms.
JAPAN highlighted the importance of examining other multilateral environmental agreements.
ARGENTINA requested clarification on whether Belarus was applying UNFCCC Article 4.6 (flexibility for EITs), and Chair Stoycheva said this was not the case.
On accounting, AUSTRALIA supported a common accounting framework for all parties.
Honduras, for SICA, expressed deep concern over delays concerning the second commitment period under the Protocol, stressing the need for urgent progress.
\t\tSudan, on behalf of the AFRICA GROUP, cautioned that a sectoral approach \t\tmay marginalize local knowledge and called for a thematic and \t\tlivelihoods approach.
NORWAY supported a science-driven approach, and called for emissions to peak in 2015 at the latest and global reductions of 85% by 2050.
The EU suggested paragraph 86 on clarity on scaling up of resources be put under scalable resources.
On the issue of Eligibility, TUVALU and PERU said activities under Article 3.3 subsequent to 1990 should not be eligible.
On   the EU highlighted developments since Bangkok.
The UK and Luxembourg suggested a longer timeline for responses to the questionnaire.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, described finance, technology transfer and capacity building as issues on which “Africa expects the SBI to take decisive action” and called for the adoption of terms of reference for the review of the Adaptation Fund and for parties to respect a previous decision on the scope of the review.
It also requests the Secretariat \t\tto organize, before COP-13, three regional workshops, reflecting \t\tregional priorities, and one expert meeting for SIDS, reflecting issues \t\tof priority identified by that group.
The US agreed, stressing that the IPCC is composed of volunteers and noting the importance of not excluding people who could make a valuable contribution while addressing the issue of bias and creating transparency.
c2 a0 Chile, for AILAC, identified three areas in Section C (general/objective) for merging and/or shortening.
KENYA reported on the Cartagena Dialogue on Progressive Action on Climate Change, which took place in Nairobi, Kenya, in April 2012, and addressed, inter alia, the Durban Platform, second commitment period under the Protocol and a new legally-binding instrument.
NEW ZEALAND, the EU and ICELAND said QELROs are subject to negotiation rather than to a decision on methods to calculate them.
JAPAN called for a unified approach to be discussed by the IPCC.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for: reaching agreement on a five-year second commitment period with 1990 as the single, legally-binding base year; agreeing on LULUCF accounting rules; identifying feasible ways to address surplus assigned amount units (AAUs); agreeing on a transparent process to transform mitigation pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs); and increasing the aggregate level of ambition.
Supported by the EU, New Zealand and others, Uruguay proposed that the SBSTA consider the agriculture sector in 2010.
MOROCCO, on behalf of the African group, reported the following nominees: Mr. Soobaraj Nayroo Sok Appadu (Mauritius) as the Vice-chair of SBSTA and Mr. Alvaro Jose Rodriguez (Colombia) as Rapporteur.
 Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said any future reporting framework must reflect differing national circumstances, taking into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and that enhanced reporting requirements would necessitate increased funding.
The US, with CANADA, proposed moving the cluster on plans and strategies after the cluster on definition and scope of NAMAs, with CANADA clarifying that plans and strategies provide framing for NAMAs.
The US noted the possibility of having a further report at SB 32 on the implementation of the programme, including on technology needs assessments and pilot projects.
AOSIS \t\tcalled for a specific programme for SIDS, consistent with the Mauritius \t\tStrategy.
He stressed the \t\tsignificance of the AWG as part of a larger process both inside and \t\toutside the UNFCCC, noting that the AWG by itself does not have the \t\tmandate to open or encourage contributions from non-Annex I parties or \t\tProtocol non-signatories such as the US.
  Co-Facilitator Andrew Rakestraw (US) reported on informal informal consultations, highlighting, inter alia, general support for: addressing all elements of Paris Agreement Article 13 as well as Decision 1/CP.21 on the enhanced transparency framework; not prejudicing the final outcomes on MPGs; and progressing work through submissions, technical papers and workshops.
AOSIS said a common understanding of terminology in the text should be reached.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND said Protocol development activities should remain in the core budget.
The EU identified the need to consider what stands the test of time and what needs to be amended on a regular basis.
The US underlined that “much good work” has been accomplished under the AWG-LCA and clarified their interpretation of the Doha outcome.
However, CANADA, NORWAY and the EU preferred wording that \t\tdoes not refer to specific organizations.
However, AUSTRALIA required further time before making a decision.
Parties highlighted areas to be strengthened in the text, which included information on activities and programmes to support the NAP process and the role of the LDC Expert Group.
AOSIS said capacity building is a dynamic and iterative process that will be augmented by experiences from implementing other aspects of the FCCC.
The US asked whether it was intended to leave out "the latest developments in science, to the extent possible, and assess the implications thereof."
After consultations, the G-77/CHINA proposed that: the Co-Chairs produce an updated, clean and streamlined text; clear options and bridging proposals be kept in a separate document; spin-off groups be used when necessary; and the contact group agree on the text for consideration by the COP.
Biot concluded that the UK found that portfolio risk screening, though useful, is an insufficient guide for adaptation planning, assisting at the operations level, or assisting partner countries.
The EU underlined that the commitment to act applies to all parties, building on existing commitments, and could include integration of adaptation into national development planning.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed a compliance mechanism with an enforcement branch dealing with countries with economy-wide targets, and a facilitative branch to assist developing countries.
BRAZIL, INDONESIA, TOGO and INDIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, supported holding consultations on this issue.
The US called for consistency in language used to state that the Secretariat would undertake work requested in light of the budget.
On the special circumstances of Croatia under UNFCCC Article 4.6 (special circumstances of economies in transition), Jim Penman (UK) reported on informal consultations.
 \t\tBangladesh, for LDCs, emphasized \t\tadaptation, CDM, micro-finance and compensation for those impacted by \t\tclimate change.
The EU stressed that Annex B parties represent only 30% of global emissions.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by THAILAND and SAUDI ARABIA, \t\topposed text in the EU 92s proposal, which calls on non-Annex I Parties to \t\tsubmit project proposals not later than one year after submission of \t\ttheir previous communication.
The EU underscored uncertainties around assumptions and conditions attached to NAMAs.
 \t\tOn the question of action encouraged by the COP, parties agreed to an \t\tannex with indicative guidance, as proposed by the EU and modified by \t\tthe US and others, and to 93demonstration activities 94 instead of a pilot \t\tphase, as preferred by Brazil.
ZIMBABWE proposed specifying the voluntary nature of AIJ, and CHINA proposed making specific reference to reports from Parties “participating in the pilot phase of AIJ.” The conclusions, as amended, were adopted.
The G-77/CHINA presented consolidated language on scope.
SAUDI ARABIA supported establishing a new system for MRV rather than using the current national communications system.
AOSIS called for simplified procedures for small island developing states (SIDS) to access resources to implement climate actions.
The US said addressing adaptation could involve: identifying a portfolio of areas of adaptation; identifying actions and actors; and funding from different sources, appropriate to actions and actors, at the local, national and international levels.
NEW ZEALAND said that even in the absence of a second commitment period, developed country mitigation actions and demand for carbon credits would continue, as national emissions trading systems would need access to Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) from the CDM.
On special circumstances of Croatia under Convention Article 4.6 (flexibility for EITs) Co-Chair Jim Penman (UK) introduced draft conclusions, noting that the contact group had considered methodological issues.
In the end, key issues in the UK proposal were incorporated under the existing topics.
The EU highlighted 25-40% emission reductions by Annex I countries through a combination of domestic and international measures, while BRAZIL stressed that reductions using the mechanisms be additional to these Annex I reductions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a limit of 2°C on global temperature rise and a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
POLAND said accommodation was available and a logistics team had been established to assist.
She said SIDS require specific consideration in the funding of NAMA preparation.
BRAZIL supported the idea of preserving the integrity of the elements text.
On Thursday, 5 June, the EU suggested that the budget be more predictable and sustainable for future periods, and expressed surprise over the distinction between Protocol and UNFCCC activities in the budget.
Other countries, including AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, the US and JAPAN, said the shared vision should be based on the two issues mandated from Cancun, i.e., the long-term global goal and the peak year.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized that the starting point with the greatest environmental benefit is from actual emissions.
The G-77/CHINA agreed to consult on whether streamlining could take place and report to the Co-Chairs later in the evening.
This was supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EU, JAPAN, and AUSTRALIA.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, noted the historic adoption of the UNFCCC’s first gender action plan, emphasizing that gender issues in the Global South are a “matter of life and death.”
The EU, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, outlined a sequence in the mitigation cycle: a strategic review of implementation in the context of science; communication and commitments, involving the submission of NDCs; an ex ante process to gain an aggregate sense of NDCs in relation to the temperature goal; and the formalization of NDCs.
AOSIS highlighted the need for environmental integrity of emissions trading systems, and sought elaboration on the idea of a compliance reserve.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for more time for item 5.
GRENADA did not understand how conservation of forests improves the uptake of a sink.
On cooperation with other conventions, Chair Thorgeirsson noted that Clare Breidenich (US) and Yvette Aguilar (El Salvador) had convened informal consultations.
The EU differentiated between sectoral approaches in the context of technology and policy cooperation and those that utilize carbon markets, such as emissions trading, on a sectoral basis.
 \t\tExpressing \t\tdisappointment at the lack of a more substantive outcome, the \t\tG-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, proposed an alternative text noting that \t\tthe group had ef bf bdfailed to reach conclusions.
SWITZERLAND proposed including a reference to Decision 8/CP.4 (Preparations for the COP serving as the MOP) so that Parties prepare their submissions bearing it in mind and asked whether the co-chairs intended to prepare a more "legally oriented" text based on the synthesis.
AOSIS said that the new market-based mechanism should focus on sectors where substantial emission reductions are needed, such as industry, energy and transport, and emphasized the need to open opportunities for developing country participation.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed differentiated reporting for countries with economy-wide emission reduction targets and developing countries, emphasizing means of support.
 NIGERIA requested that the different views be presented in a non-biased way.
GABON supported a general policy debate to clearly define principles.
Australia, supported by Japan, the US, New Zealand, Canada and the EU, noted convergence on information exchange and encouraged accomplishing this through existing mechanisms such as national communications.
The EU preferred "a compliance system for the Kyoto Protocol" in order to reflect a comprehensive approach to addressing compliance.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern that a facilitative dialogue could represent an ex ante review and opposed this.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, called for additional support for the Fund.
CUBA, on behalf of several countries, expressed concern with respect to unilateral measures in relation to aviation emissions, such as under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that it would be very difficult to cover the wide range of technical and scientific issues with only 15 experts.
The EU noted the private sector’s role in financing adaptation, and supported market approaches and a combination of options.
The EU, CANADA and MICRONESIA noted the usefulness of the compilation and synthesis report in better understanding the difficulties faced by non-Annex I Parties.
CHINA, opposed by the US, CANADA, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU, suggested deleting text in the annex that calls on experts to disclose potential conflicts of interest, noting that this would create an additional burden on expert reviewers.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said next week’s discussions should focus on, inter alia: the outcome of Doha; the 2013 workplan; and closing the ambition gap in 2013.
On the draft conclusions on LULUCF (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.9), ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA questioned a sentence he said could be interpreted as signaling that substantive decision-making on LULUCF will take place at SBSTA-11.
In response, the UK and CANADA noted their liberalization of energy markets and renewable energy measures.
The US, supported by CANADA, noted that the IMO and ICAO are specialized independent agencies with their own guiding principles, which limits the application of the Convention’s principles.
BRAZIL opposed linking Article 6 to Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+), while PANAMA and BELIZE supported such a link.
On the Co-Chairs 92 text, the EU suggested removing the section on Protocol Article 3.14, and integrating it into the sections on adverse effects and the impact of response measures.
On vulnerability and ability to respond to the impact of potential consequences, the EU, ARGENTINA and the GAMBIA questioned the inclusion of textual proposals, which they said had only been proposed by one party and not agreed upon in the drafting group.
The PHILIPPINES said national adaptation plans should be expanded to other vulnerable developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA said it had highlighted the need for another workshop prior to COP-6.
NICARAGUA said the WIM should be implemented solely “in virtue of” the Convention.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, supported by PAPUA NEW GUINEA, called for an AWG-KP output that adopts ratifiable amendments to the Kyoto Protocol and its Annex B that will be provisionally applied.
Spain, for the EU, expressed support for treating mitigation and adaptation equally and for fast-start funding focusing on particularly vulnerable countries, and emphasized that the issue of response measures should be dealt with under mitigation.
The EU, US and CANADA highlighted progress made, including the GEF 92s third replenishment, the establishment of the LDC Fund, and development of guidelines for NAPAs.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), expressed “great concern” that current emission reduction pledges would lead to a temperature increase of 4°C and that six months after COP 15, financing for adaptation is yet to materialize.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN supported the continued use of GWPs, and NORWAY proposed that the IPCC provide additional information on other metrics.
CHINA proposed communicating the \t\tconclusions to the Expert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT).
AOSIS supported a facilitative mechanism beyond a clearing house that helps developing national adaptation plans, tracks funds from developed countries, and assists with matching them.
SAUDI ARABIA said maritime and aviation emission levies would negatively impact developing country economic sectors.
SAUDI ARABIA reiterated that adaptation includes adaptation to response measures, and highlighted CCS as an adaptation technology.
On the COP/ MOP rules, NORWAY and the US emphasized that institutional responsibilities be part of the COP-6 decision.
SWITZERLAND, stressing his support for full transparency, proposed that all materials, including parties’ presentations, should be published by the Secretariat in a “dedicated space” on their website.
JAPAN highlighted his country’s views on various approaches, including opportunities for using markets.
JAPAN highlighted the need for clarity on how to define parties’ absolute emission reduction targets, and with AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, called for coherence with the AWG-LCA.
Mexico, for the EIG, underscored the Dialogue’s message of working as a community.
Chair Stoycheva agreed to suspend the adoption of the agenda to allow the G-77/China to consider the US proposal.
GERMANY and others expressed a preference for the IPCC \t\tto undertake emission scenario development, but a willingness to \t\tcompromise on the IPCC 92s 93coordinating and facilitating 94 emission \t\tscenario development.
TUVALU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, COLOMBIA and others, suggested adding a new paragraph, after clarifying that the ADP has finished its mandate, which decides to establish the APO.
94 The US noted problems with defining climate policies, and whether these include other non-climate environmental policies that also reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The US, with AUSTRALIA and Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for an interim conference venue while awaiting the completion of the permanent conference facilities.
SWITZERLAND said that the carry-over issue should be approached from a comprehensive perspective and that the alternative to the CDM is “the Wild West” of disparate carbon markets.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Oman and the EU, and opposed by Canada, requested the exclusion of a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts in relation to cleaner energy exports.
Saying that they are a group of e2 80 9cbridge building engineers, e2 80 9d Costa Rica, for AILAC, urged all parties to redouble their efforts to find more points of convergence, calling for a mode of work that leads to tangible results in Lima.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed the separate \t\t\tconsideration of these issues.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the \t\temphasis at the recent Seminar of Governmental Experts on mobilizing \t\tprivate sector resources and support for an enabling environment.
 SAUDI ARABIA stated that an endorsement from the SBI would require line-by-line consideration and noted that the operational strategy was not exactly aligned with the COP decision on programmes, priorities and guidelines.
MALI, on behalf of the LDCs, highlighted the need for terms of reference for the expert group, and said his group is currently formulating proposals for a draft decision on this matter.
ETHIOPIA, supported by BRAZIL, suggested a technical workshop.
Welcoming the “historic agreement” as a landmark that will provide security and stability, the EU emphasized “we all have to translate this agreement to concrete actions.” Echoing that “today we can celebrate but tomorrow we have to act,” the EU noted the launch of the High-Ambition Coalition and underscored the EU “will scale up financial support as of 2020 and make it more predictable.”
With Canada, Japan and the EU, she emphasized that adaptation should be country-driven and that priority should be given to the most vulnerable.
It included four sub-items on: the fourth review of the financial mechanism (FCCC/SBI/2010/INF.7, FCCC/SBI/2009/MISC.10 and Add.1); the report of the GEF (FCCC/CP/2010/5 and Add.1, FCCC/CP/2009/9 and FCCC/SBI/2010/MISC.5); the assessment of the SCCF; and the LDC Fund (FCCC/CP/2010/5 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2010/5, FCCC/SBI/2010/15, 17, 26 and MISC.9, FCCC/SBI/2009/MISC.10 and Add.1).
KENYA, for the G-77/CHINA, said the geographic distribution of projects should be improved, particularly for Africa.
The  G-77/CHINA requested affirmation that the text should be seen as a consolidated list of paragraphs based on the negotiating text and underscored that financing and effective transfer of technology are the two key priority areas.
 SENEGAL said that the AGBM cannot continue to “mutter and stammer” when faced with such historic events.
The G-77/ CHINA supported an annual desk review and a periodic review in conjunction with national communications.
NIGERIA said the paragraph should remain as is because numerous delegations had specifically emphasized no new commitments for developing countries and CHINA said that some proposals had attempted to introduce commitments for developing countries.
CANADA said form should follow function.
NIUE emphasized the need for technological and financial assistance for adaptation.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, supported by GUATEMALA, objected to SBSTA Chair Konaté’s proposal to close the agenda item.
On the section on Protocol Article 3.14, the US, with the EU and several other developed countries, noted that it dealt primarily with the impact of response measures, and suggested merging it with the previous section that directly addressed this issue.
The EU, Japan, Australia and the US supported use of global warming potentials (GWPs).
CHINA opposed major modifications for the second commitment period and stressed that provisions on LULUCF should apply only to Annex B countries.
The EU stressed that it is premature to decide whether the text will become a COP/MOP decision or conclusions, while South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, hoped that they would achieve more than a conclusion.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, reaffirmed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, calling for a higher level of ambition by Annex I parties.
 CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, IRAN, JAPAN, THAILAND, CHILE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, GAMBIA, KUWAIT and MOROCCO said it would be premature to make conclusions on areas of convergence because the process is still evolving and contributions have been preliminary.
The G-77/China identified some areas \t\t\twhere it might show some flexibility, while the US reiterated its \t\t\tpreference for zero nominal growth, but also expressed willingness \t\t\tto compromise.
The UK, with Germany and the US, called for recognition of historical contributions, including in-kind contributions to the Technical Support Units (TSUs).
The EU noted this is “the right place to discuss pre-2020 finance.” Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, requested a workshop on finance needs of developing countries, in particular for adaptation, in 2016.
BOLIVIA lamented that negotiations under the AWG-KP are behind schedule and urged parties to work towards an equitable and just outcome.
Delegates met in a formal meeting and heard a presentation by the G-77/CHINA on its views, contained in a new submission, on consequences under a compliance regime.
On Saturday, following contact group discussions, India and Norway proposed specifying that new and existing technologies and practices are technically proven “at various scales.”The UK suggested that their large-scale deployment “may be,” rather than “is,” limited by various constraints.
A \t\tcontact group co-chaired by Philip Gwage (Uganda) and David Warrilow \t\t(UK) met on Thursday, 9 December, to draft conclusions on this issue \t\tsince there was insufficient time for a decision at COP-10.
CHILE noted that Article 14 calls for settlement of disputes through negotiations or “any other peaceful means,” and that an MCP could fill the latter role.
The EU called for a review of the scope of current education programmes and the development of more specific reporting guidelines.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized the need to leave Panama with clarity on the road ahead, and “a negotiating text in hand.”
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for the inclusion of capacity-building support for NDCs.
Colombia, for AILAC, the EU and the US supported early entry into force, and, with the LMDCs, emphasized it should not affect parties’ right to fully participate in the rulemaking process.
CHINA highlighted the need to clarify steps and elements of the readiness phase, including scaling-up fast-start finance for national strategies and action plans, as well as demonstration projects.
The Gambia, for the G-77/China, suggested requesting the Secretariat to compile and synthesize the outcomes and recommendations from the regional workshops held so far, together with the implementation of these outcomes and recommendations.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, stated that market and non-market approaches should be guided by principles of transparency, environmental integrity, and avoiding double counting, while considering the diversity of NDCs.
ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) stressed the urgency of beginning substantive negotiations.
IRAN commented that the workshop had focused too much on the recent oil price rise, noting that this is not a permanent phenomenon.
Switzerland, Russia, Norway, Japan, Poland, Canada and Australia supported or expanded on various aspects of the US position.
SWITZERLAND urged ex ante consideration of aggregate commitments.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), said Doha must set out a work plan up to 2015, including milestones.
The EU said the upcoming workshop should consider, inter alia, defining 93best practices 94 and assessing the extent to which international cooperation may enhance effectiveness of P&amp;Ms. AUSTRALIA preferred reference to 93good 94 rather than 93best 94 practices and, with JAPAN and the US, said P&amp;Ms should reflect national circumstances.
Numerous countries, including NEW ZEALAND, ECUADOR, the EU and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported the document’s list of methodological issues that warrant special consideration.
The US added that progress had been made and he remained optimistic.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said that the recent focus on the Protocol has meant that some UNFCCC issues have been neglected, particularly those relevant to developing countries.
AUSTRALIA expressed concern regarding the singling out of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and invasive alien species (IAS), while NORWAY expressed preference for stronger text on excluding GMOs and IAS.
 Chair Thorgeirsson indicated that informal conclusions had been conducted by Richard Bradley (US), who then briefed Parties on these discussions, noting agreement on the value of a balanced information package and a process for recommending a draft decision at SB-17 for COP-8.
COLOMBIA urged parties not to debate process, noting that these discussions are being held elsewhere.
Bangladesh supported a multilateral CDM programme for LDCs.
 HUNGARY, Katalin Szili, Parliamentary State Secretary, Ministry for the Environment and Regional Development, described national plans to mitigate GHG, and agreed with the EU position on adoption of legally binding policies and measures.
CANADA, the EU, ZIMBABWE, ITALY, MOROCCO, the PHILIPPINES and CHILE called for equitable geographic representation.
BANGLADESH called for focusing on proposals that highlight the needs of LDCs and SIDS.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted a number of important outcomes on: Convention Article 6; adaptation in the context of decision 1/CP.10; the Adaptation Fund and its review; and LDCs.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, the EIG and the EU proposed that parties: “unpack issues”; reorganize text; and explain their proposals.
The PHILIPPINES and the GAMBIA stressed focusing attention on new and effective adaptation technologies.
On the process to enable the LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, the EU proposed language stating the planning process should not be prescriptive and should facilitate country-driven action.
SWAZILAND noted the mandate of the Technology Mechanism from Cancun does not match with that suggested in paragraph 140.1.
The US, \t\twith SWITZERLAND and ARGENTINA, cautioned that outreach activities must \t\tnot become marketing mechanisms, as that would extend beyond the IPCC ef bf bds \t\trole.
On decision-making on the road to COP 17, the EU called for an elaboration of terms of reference for the CTC; The Chair observed the need for: a mechanism that both serves the UNFCCC’s policy needs and meets the operational requirements of developing countries; and further discussion on links with the UNFCCC.
An ALBA country strongly supported developing non-market based approaches focusing on the multiple functions and values of forests.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA shared results of sectoral mitigation scenarios, noting potential for a 17% reduction in total GHG emissions over 2010-2040 under the most ambitious scenario presented in its biennial update report (BUR).
Noting that heterogeneity of impacts among countries is unavoidable, the G-77/CHINA said the reference year of 1990 is already established.
GERMANY and the US recommended that “environmental” costs and benefits be considered and EGYPT said their role in enhancing carbon sinks should also be noted.
 The US said deleting paragraph 2 would mean the SBSTA has failed miserably in providing guidance.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reiterated their commitment to a second commitment period and stressed that the flexibility mechanisms are an integral part of the Kyoto Protocol.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, suggested the "detection of anthropogenic climate change," needed to be put into a historical perspective.
The EU highlighted, inter alia: the multilateral assessment and facilitative sharing of views; review of the Technology Mechanism; an improved response measures forum; and the PCCB meeting.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION reported that his country was in the process of considering further emission reductions and opposed the adoption of a collective range as this would pre-judge individual obligations.
 \t\t\tIn discussing \t\t\tthe list, NORWAY, CANADA and JAPAN stressed the importance of \t\t\tplacing Annex I mitigation efforts in the global context.
Regarding the frequency of national communications, the US said capacity building is enhanced by more frequent national communications.
On next steps, countries agreed to have a roundtable, as proposed by Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs, instead of workshops.
EGYPT, with PARAGUAY, emphasized that adequate and predictable finance should come mainly from public sources.
AOSIS said discussions should focus on what pre-conditions have been met by the Cancun outcome that will enable parties to adopt a second commitment period, what further pre-conditions are necessary for parties to adopt a second commitment period, and what is necessary for these pre-conditions to be met before Durban.
 NORWAY: Bernt Bull, Ministry of Environment, outlined a legally-binding commitment that: recognizes different industry structures; is equitable and verifiable; is based on equity, not a flat rate reduction; and utilizes fiscal measures, e.g.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that: NDC guidance should fully operationalize differentiation; guidance on adaptation communication should define a minimum common set of elements; and the group’s preferred options in the draft text on transparency should be re-inserted.
A number of EU countries are willing to commit themselves to reduce emissions.
SWITZERLAND said the Secretariat should record the difficulties cited by countries and called for revision of in-depth review projects.
On  , Saudi Arabia proposed that the provision exempting SIDS from payment of the registration fee and share of proceeds, as well as that establishing a quota for projects hosted in LDCs, SIDS and African countries, should be extended to all developing countries with fewer than ten registered projects.
With SWITZERLAND, the EU recognized that there is a link between the Montreal and Kyoto Protocols.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA highlighted the role of incentives, stating that issuing carbon credits based on measurable, reportable and verifiable mitigation can encourage developing countries’ participation.
The EU, JAPAN and the US said the references to "Annex I Party" could be deleted since the articles falling into the scope of that branch only applied to Annex I Parties and since non-Annex I Parties were not submitted to host-country requirements under the CDM.
SWITZERLAND and SOUTH AFRICA inquired about how the placeholders on further work would be populated, including whether to reflect possible divergence in views.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed, inter alia, the role of the Adaptation Fund in serving the Paris agreement, and, that pre-2020 ambition remains of “critical importance.”
CHINA urged the establishment of a procedure for the replenishment of the SCCF.
The G-77/CHINA said without practical technical know-how, technology transfer would be impossible.
CHINA said the review should not be an \t\topportunity to rewrite the Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA called for further consideration of implications of provisional application of provisions.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, opposed the introduction of new text by the Co-Chairs, stating that the text had already been gaveled during informal consultations last night.
Matthew Webb, UK, and \t\t\tLi Gao, China, presented on the new zero emissions coal initiative, \t\t\twhich includes the construction and operation of a CCS demonstration \t\t\tproject in China between 2010-2014.
The G-77/CHINA pointed to convergence on establishing a technology transfer mechanism and divergence on concepts.
The EIG advocated making climate action more gender-responsive.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, AOSIS, NORWAY and others supported considering the development of standardized, multi-project baselines, with AOSIS noting the need to improve access to the CDM.
The US stressed the function of assessment over \t\tcoordination and discussed the importance of continued involvement from \t\tthe US climate modeling community.
Underscoring the importance of implementing Article 4.5, the G-77/ CHINA expressed concern over the failure of some Parties to implement their commitments, and stressed the need to make progress on the outstanding issues.
The US said the group is also mandated to clarify concepts.
TUVALU appealed for progress on the Montreal Action Plan, resources for adaptation and capacity building.
BOTSWANA emphasized the role of the CDM in assisting developing countries and urged progress on elaborating this mechanism.
MEXICO, supported by UGANDA, CHILE and BOLIVIA, also suggested text on human rights.
On process and possible outcomes of COP 23, the EU said it was not convinced that compilations of submissions or parties’ views is an efficient way to conduct the process.
The US identified the need to consider the spectrum of countries’ national circumstances and said the registry approach should be considered for both developed and developing countries, while BRAZIL said developed countries must take on commitments and stressed the need to consider comparability of efforts.
NEW ZEALAND said that the TAPs should be established as soon as possible, adding that geographic balance and experience must both be incorporated.
CHINA warned that the use of markets could lead to double counting in terms of fulfilling developed countries’ financial commitments and generating offsets.
On the COP 19 outcome, she called for: a process to review support from Annex I parties; clarity on the delivery of the US$100 billion of annual long-term finance; and options to strengthen the price of carbon.
INDONESIA called for a complete, coherent, and balanced outcome that is applicable to all but still is under the CBDR-RC principle, emphasizing the need for balance between action and support in the transparency framework.
Finland and Denmark pledged support to the LDC Fund.
On cooperation with relevant international organizations, the MARSHALL ISLANDS sought clarification from IPCC regarding how regional implications will be covered in the Third Assessment Report(TAR).
On Tuesday, 10 June, the EU and the US continued to disagree over the issue of indicative scales.
INDIA and others said the Convention reflects the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities appropriately.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said any proposal to eliminate or limit carryover is inconsistent with the Kyoto Protocol.
URUGUAY, with ARGENTINA and BRAZIL, urged avoiding negative impacts on the agricultural sector and food production.
On  , the EU, opposed by Argentina and Venezuela, and supported by New Zealand and others, proposed a paragraph establishing new market-based mechanisms.
The  G-77/CHINA highlighted that input on the GEF-5 replenishment is a part of the fourth review of the financial mechanism, and suggested a request to the GEF, the UNFCCC Secretariat and other sources to provide additional relevant information.
FRANCE called for more time to study the document and the Chair agreed to facilitate informal discussions.
Nauru, for AOSIS, identified the need for more focused discussion, with developed countries taking the lead and upscaling finance.
The \t\tUS, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by ARGENTINA, AOSIS, the EU \t\tand MAURITIUS, disputed discussion on inputs from the COP to the BPOA+10 \t\tand WCDR.
Belize, for AOSIS, underscored \t\tadaptation, technology transfer, and systematic observation, and \t\tproposed an IPCC Special Report on SIDS.
CANADA outlined plans to reduce emissions 60-70% by 2050.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION underscored that their pledge is dependent on the outcome of LULUCF discussions.
KENYA, \t\tfor the Africa Group, highlighted the urgency of adaptation, and \t\temphasized the need to operationalize the Special Climate Change Fund.
AUSTRALIA underscored the central importance of transparency regardless of which option is chosen.
 INDIA said that the SBSTA should take regional groups as the basis, and noted that Asia has both Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
The G-77/CHINA welcomed \t\tthe reforms and highlighted a communication gap between the GEF and \t\tparties.
On Functions of a Compliance Institution, SAUDI ARABIA proposed adding that all compliance and non-compliance issues pertaining to project activities under Article 12 (CDM) shall be addressed by the CDM 92s Executive Board.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, with AOSIS, stated that a shared vision is composed of the four building blocks and highlighted proposals for a financial architecture and a multilateral technology fund.
Expressing commitment to building more trust, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, wondered if the group’s views “still matter.” With the Maldives, for AOSIS, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, she sought clarification on the way forward and called for resuming the stocktaking after the G-77/China had finished their coordination.
EGYPT preferred a uniform level of emissions.
JAPAN said discussions under the AWG-LCA need to be consistent with those under the AWG-KP.
Costa Rica, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, highlighted the critical role of forests and the need for draft decisions on MRV for REDD+.
The US stressed that capacity building should be results-based.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and Japan, supported including this item on the agenda.
 During the contact group, AUSTRALIA emphasized the role of the UNFCCC process in determining a method for prioritizing support to vulnerable countries based, inter alia, on physical impacts and adaptive capacity.
With the US and Canada, he suggested that the revised uniform reporting format be discussed at SBSTA-14.
CHINA said any discussion on the Protocol should consider the impacts of implementation, and SAUDI ARABIA called for a scientific assessment of these impacts.
AUSTRALIA, the UK, \t\tthe NETHERLANDS, and BANGLADESH said that given the timing and substance \t\tof the AR4, the IPCC guidelines for the commencement of special reports, \t\tand resource constraints, it is not appropriate to consider such a \t\tspecial report at this time.
CHINA cautioned against e2 80 9cboard-shifting behaviors e2 80 9d in reference to the potential role of the private sector in supporting capacity building.
CANADA said the public versus private sector funding debate was leading to a “false argument” by suggesting that one is more important than the other.
The US, Canada and Belgium expressed concern regarding duplication of TGICA’s functions, such as with the WMO’s Global Framework for Climate Services, and recommended also discussing this issue further.
Switzerland, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), outlined three deliverables for Doha: concluding the AWG-KP, closing the AWG-LCA, and progressing on the two streams of the ADP.
The UK called attention to a Dutch/British study, coordinated by the World Bank, to provide adaptation practitioners with a guide on, inter alia, how to carry out cost-benefit analyses of adaptation measures.
The US expressed concern over the interdependence of chapters and called for some consolidation and Japan agreed that Chapters 2-5 were interrelated.
TUVALU underscored the need for more inclusive treatment of adaptation, called for separate treatment of sub-paragraphs 1(b)(i) (mitigation commitments and actions by developed countries) and 1(b)(ii) (NAMAs by developing countries) of the BAP, and cautioned against use of text from the Copenhagen Accord.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, submitted an outline for a protocol or legal instrument.
AUSTRALIA favored a menu approach whereby a Party not complying with Article 3.1 could choose from a predetermined set of roughly equivalent consequences.
GUYANA, with COSTA RICA and SURINAME, said the decision to bring REDD to SBSTA was made by the COP and that no party subsequently has the right to remove it from the agenda.
 AUSTRALIA proposed: a collective reduction objective for “Annex A” Parties, which are those listed in Annex I of the FCCC; mitigation activities that result in equal percentage changes in per capita economic welfare among “Annex A” Parties; differentiated commitments; use of indicators in the negotiation process; and further consideration of market-based approaches such as emissions trading and joint implementation.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underlined that sectoral approaches should not replace legally binding commitments for developed countries, and that transnational sectoral agreements are not acceptable for developing countries.
The EU, G-77/ CHINA and NEW ZEALAND introduced minor changes.
BRAZIL said eligible activities should continue to be limited to afforestation and deforestation.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said delegates first need to resolve the internal regulations of a protocol.
He stressed that “well-planned cities are an \t\t\tefficient use of space and energy.” FRANCE presented on the \t\t\texperiences of the Lille area in waste management and inland \t\t\twaterway transport.
CANADA noted that his country 92s adaptation support prioritizes LDCs.
The EU acknowledged the possibility of setting a cap, but stressed that such a cap must not be too restrictive and must still provide an incentive for taking further action.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed having an option stating that no decision should be taken on this issue.
The EU stressed the continued provision of climate finance after 2012 and work to scale up finance towards 2020.
SAUDI ARABIA said the issue was unfinished business from the BAPA and stressed preparation of a draft decision for COP/MOP-1.
AOSIS acknowledged the utility of discussing principles, but was ready to work on the basis of the Secretariat’s synthesis of submissions.
SWITZERLAND noted the need to address technicalities for a seamless 2012-2013 transition.
The EU, Australia, Japan, Canada, Czech Republic, Brazil, Switzerland, South Africa and Slovakia expressed favor for Alternative A, provided that a decision to adopt a protocol would be taken by a 3/4 majority.
GABON underscored issues of trust between developed and developing countries.
BOLIVIA called for limiting the temperature increase to 1°C and stabilization at as close to 300 ppm as possible.
The G-77/CHINA disagreed and proposed to submit new text.
The Dominican Republic, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, said closing the ambition gap requires a REDD+ mechanism in the future climate regime.
The NETHERLANDS and the INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY described the Climate Technology Institute, an initiative to support the FCCC in addressing technology transfer needs.
URUGUAY asked what mechanism would facilitate the review process.
Parties agreed to use an existing body, specifically the ADP under a new name, by “importing” its governance arrangements, particularly regarding the Bureau as proposed by Colombia, on behalf of the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC).
NORWAY, the US, JAPAN and SAINT LUCIA expressed their disappointment that the contact group was unable to agree to a decision on this item.
He described the institutional framework under the \t\t\tUNFCCC to support adaptation, including funds and Convention expert \t\t\tgroups, including the LDC Expert Group (LEG), the Consultative Group \t\t\tof Experts on non-Annex I national communications (CGE) and the \t\t\tExpert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT).
KUWAIT and QATAR emphasized the importance of including CCS under the CDM.
Various LDC parties outlined areas where support is required, noting the need for strengthening national capacity to ensure integration of adaptation into national development.
ARGENTINA said historical contributions and current circumstances must be considered and called for short-term measures while advancing long-term goals.
SINGAPORE highlighted three aspects for raising ambition: deepening the range of actions, particularly ambition in the context of the Kyoto Protocol, and the range of pledges; broadening the range of actions, saying complementary initiatives are relevant but should strengthen the multilateral system and respect the different competencies of multilateral organizations; and broadening the range of actors.
AOSIS supported inclusion of additional gases to prevent the development of perverse incentives to increase emissions of these gases.
Belgium, for the EU, stressed that while the EU would prefer a single, legally-binding instrument including essential elements of the Protocol, it is flexible regarding the legal form, as long as it is binding.
 SWITZERLAND said that the BM clearly states that analysis and assessments should be conducted in parallel and not prior to the negotiations.
Parties then considered the guidance to an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the UNFCCC on the LDC Fund.
MALAYSIA suggested that borrowers should pay interest, which could be used to set up a fund to safeguard countries against the effects of climate change.
CANADA, the UK, the US and NEW ZEALAND called for regular reviews of the roster as well as inclusion of gender considerations in the identification of persons to recommend.
Emphasizing the need to allow time for group coordination, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing sections of the text thematically and, supported by Jamaica, for AOSIS, beginning with streamlining the text on monitoring and evaluation.
The UK and UNSIDS pointed to the inaccuracy of models based on the assumption of a uniform carbon tax, as many countries plan to implement multiple policies and measures to reduce emissions.
INDIA, SAMOA and BRAZIL expressed concern at this new proposal.
The COP also elected members to the: Adaptation Committee; Adaptation Fund Board; Advisory Board to the CTCN; Consultative Group of Experts (CGE); Compliance Committee, both the facilitative and enforcement branches; Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Executive Board; WIM Executive Committee (ExCom); Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee; Technology Executive Committee (TEC) and LDC Expert Group (LEG).
The EU and SWITZERLAND said their submissions on baselines for CDM applied to JI.
With CHINA, he added that references to "Party" with respect to eligibility requirements should be prefaced by "Annex I."
BRAZIL and MICRONESIA opposed CCS under the CDM, while QATAR highlighted the potential for CCS.
CANADA stressed the importance of enabling a country-driven approach, and identified areas of common interest, including: national actions to drive technology development and deployment; supportive policy and regulatory frameworks; private sector engagement; technology needs assessments (TNAs) as a primary tool; and regional innovation centers.
 Ecuador, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), stressed: the importance of advancing, and maintaining a balance among, all elements of the Paris Agreement; the need to move to textual negotiations by COP 23; and NDCs as a key vehicle for delivering enhanced action under the Paris Agreement.
SUDAN stressed technology transfer irrespective of political relations or racial considerations.
SAUDI ARABIA, noting the number of substantive issues to be addressed, with QATAR, INDIA and CHINA, said that extra time would be “extremely useful.” AUSTRALIA proposed assessing the need for a second informal meeting after the first one.
On a request to continue discussions on, inter alia, increasing capacity-building and support for the involvement of observer organizations, MEXICO and SOUTH AFRICA suggested this should be considered particularly for developing countries observer organizations.
TUVALU expressed concern about the high cost of servicing the Fund, calling for criteria for evaluating the role of the interim secretariat and trustee.
The NETHERLANDS and FRANCE said reliance on inventories alone was insufficient to evaluate the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms.
 , e2 80 9d the US sought clarification of e2 80 9cover the long term, e2 80 9d asking for something more quantifiable.
INDIA said developing countries are already engaging in sustainable social and economic development.
The US claimed that economic growth is the key to environmental progress.
INDIA preferred focusing on deliverables from Cancun and the future of the Kyoto Protocol which is “highly threatened,” stating that the AWG-KP progress is well behind the AWG-LCA.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the guidelines for non-Annex I Parties communications should be flexible so as to take into account the wide diversity among developing countries.
ADP Co-Chair Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) opened the closing plenary at 5:34 pm on Saturday, expressing the hope that in the interest of time, parties would refrain from making closing statements.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the meeting should focus only on rules that will apply during the second commitment period and necessary amendments, and refer consequential amendments to the SBS for future consideration.
CHINA said the core element of the Bali Action Plan is developed countries undertaking more emission reduction commitments while providing finance and technology to developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized that it was not willing to talk about assessments, plans or developing country responsibilities, but that it wanted to enhance the Convention’s implementation.
In opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, reaffirmed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, calling for a higher level of ambition by Annex I parties.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against a reference to maximizing positive consequences.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said this option was not relevant for the AWG-KP’s mandate to amend Annex B. SWITZERLAND and JAPAN stressed that discussing the options was difficult without clarity on other issues including LULUCF.
Grenada, speaking for the Alliance of Small Island \t\t\tStates (AOSIS), supported progress on the Adaptation Fund, \t\t\ttechnology transfer, and response measures.
Maldives, for the Least \t\t\tDeveloped Countries (LDCs), highlighted the work of the LDC Expert \t\t\tGroup, funding for adaptation, and management of the LDC Fund.
On common metrics to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalence of emissions by sources and removals by sinks, AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed coherence with concurrent negotiations underway in the AWG-LCA, and the US urged Protocol parties to avoid creating inconsistencies between the two negotiating tracks in this respect.
ARGENTINA suggested discussing the relationship between the global stocktake and the 2018 facilitative dialogue.
On financial resources to support needs assessment, the PHILIPPINES proposed deleting "subject to the availability of resources," noting that provision of financial resources is a commitment elaborated under UNFCCC Article 4.3 (new and additional financial resources).
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested clarification on whether the contact group would produce a decision.
According to the EU, the IPCC Special Report and country specific data should provide the basis for future discussions and decisions.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, the US, IRAN and BANGLADESH, objected to restricting the Round Table to ministers, saying all heads of delegations should be welcome regardless of rank.
CANADA noted that COP decisions are appropriate to enable action in line with the latest science.
The G-77/CHINA, EU, and UMBRELLA GROUP opposed extending the \t\tmeeting beyond two weeks, although the G-77/CHINA added that it might \t\tconsider a one-day extension.
MALAYSIA suggested that developing countries e2 80 99 capacity has mainly been enhanced with respect to reporting requirements.
CARICOM drew attention to the informal economy and to fiscal systems.
On POLAND b4s suggestion to reflect the priorities of economies in transition in the text, BRAZIL said this was not explicitly reflected in UNFCCC Article 4.5, which refers to developing countries in particular.
CHILE provided an overview of his country’s second Biennial Update Report (BUR), noting an increase in emissions of over 100% since 1990, and about 20% since 2010.
Identifying essential elements, COLOMBIA highlighted, inter alia, voluntary participation, a country-driven approach and contribution to sustainable development.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN highlighted a lack of consensus on the matter, which Co-Chair Estrada said would be adequately reflected.
The EU and GABON presented consolidated text on MRV with paragraphs on: monitoring and reporting; reference levels; and verification.
ECUADOR, CHINA, CUBA and Uganda, for the LDCs, called for submissions.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the agreement should include: objectives; principles; and major thematic issues.
The EU, however, was adamant that its intention was not to “kill” the Protocol but to “build on and strengthen it.” As one EU delegate explained, “We want to find a home for the key elements of the Kyoto Protocol in a new legal instrument.” The essence of such proposals is that the Protocol’s legal architecture – legally-binding quantified emission reduction targets for developed countries, reporting under Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8, the flexibility mechanisms and a compliance regime with sanctions – would be copied into a new comprehensive agreement.
The EU expressed disappointment that the agenda item on MRV had failed to move forward under the SBI and looked forward to substantive discussions under the AWG-LCA.
The G-77/CHINA preferred adopting a decision.
The EU noted the constitutional complications for some countries posed by provisional application and expressed interest in further examining the CDM question.
Many countries, including CANADA, VENEZUELA, AUSTRALIA, IRAN and SLOVENIA, supported an advisory approach.
Germany, UK \t\t\tand Norway underscored the importance of quantification.
With the US and HUNGARY, AUSTRALIA called for meaningful participation and future voluntary commitments appropriate to individual circumstances and with QATAR, NORWAY, PERU and SENEGAL stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
JAPAN noted its contribution of 20% of GEF funding and called for extensive evaluation.
The EU called for, inter alia, launching a continuous process to enhance ambition and address the gap.
 \t\tJosef Pr f6ll, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, \t\tEnvironment and Water Management, Austria, emphasized that climate \t\tchange is already a 93harsh reality 94 and indicated that the EU is \t\tprepared to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 provided that other \t\tindustrialized countries take commitments and that economically advanced \t\tdeveloping countries contribute adequately.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, expressed concerns with proposals leading to offsets, emphasizing the need to avoid creating disincentives for economy-wide emission reductions.
Morocco, for the G-77/China, said adaptation and mitigation measures will be unsuccessful if developed countries ignore the concerns and situation of vulnerable States.
The EU noted that these options are well refined within the current text on mechanisms and, with NEW ZEALAND, said they require a political decision.
PANAMA, also speaking for Colombia, Chile, Mexico, Guatemala, Peru, Uruguay and the Dominican Republic, stressed the importance of making progress on REDD, including participation of all developing countries.
BRAZIL highlighted attribution of causes and consequences when assessing contributions to climate change.
SWEDEN urged delegates to work to increase awareness, understanding and support for change and, with FINLAND, applauded the role of NGOs in the environmental agenda.
BRAZIL noted that the decision which established the voluntary meetings did not specify an end year and therefore the meetings should continue to be organized by the Secretariat.
 PAPUA NEW GUINEA stated that a high-level session is a precondition for achieving a successful outcome in Cancún.
DISCUSSION: AUSTRIA suggested that the Compliance Workshop identify common ground on the linkages between the compliance system and Articles 5, 7 and 8 and present it to the workshop on Articles 5, 7 and 8.
The EU and 24 Asian states signed a declaration urging agreement on an international framework on climate change at the Copenhagen conference in December 2009.
On cross-cutting issues, the EU proposed text requesting the SBSTA to revise and complement decisions and guidelines relating to reporting, review and accounting by COP/MOP 7.
France, for the EU, called on developed countries to take on reduction commitments of 30% by 2020 based on 1990 levels.
SWITZERLAND said that, like the EU, his country would reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 unilaterally, and by 30% if other developed countries take comparable action.
The US proposed the Secretariat prepare a revised version of the text.
OPEC noted the adverse impacts of implementing the Protocol on the economies of developing country members.
Switzerland, for the EIG, indicated that COP guidance should not create additional burdens for REDD+ finance and identified the need to fill the gap between fast start and long-term financing.
CHINA highlighted comparability as the core of sub-paragraph 1(b)(i) of the BAP, and said the same provisions on third party review, LULUCF and offsets should apply to Protocol parties and non-parties.
\t\tWith JAPAN, he noted that more effective action on mitigation is \t\trequired to avoid exceeding critical thresholds.
 AOSIS said procedural decisions on the process that will be used to complete the work and on who has responsibility for it should be taken at CMA 1.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested that the information considered by the branch be made available to the public after the conclusion of the process.
During the final consideration of this item on 9 June, Norway and the US proposed, opposed by the G-77/China and South Africa, moving to conceptual discussions.
UKRAINE stressed establishment of a work programme for implementation of Kyoto obligations by Annex I Parties.
JAPAN noted a COP-7 decision (9/CP.7) requesting the Secretariat to organize a workshop before COP/ MOP-2 relating to reporting on minimizing impacts of response measures and, supported by the EU and CANADA, said this addressed Saudi Arabia 92s concerns.
Brazil highlighted the shortcoming of GWPs, while the EU and Norway supported their continued use.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, expressed continued concern with implications of LULUCF proposals for accounting and transparency and stressed the need to consider quantitative impacts of the proposals.
CANADA undertook to provide adaptation technology through the CDM.
COLOMBIA urged increasing financial support for research and capacity building at the national level.
 \t\tThe EU emphasized that the paper confirms the urgency and scale of the \t\tnecessary mitigation efforts, also showing that mitigation is \t\ttechnically and economically feasible.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA stressed that developing countries need clarity on sustainable finance and highlighted the importance of good governance.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for guidance to be flexible and, with the EU, to promote progression.
 The EU suggested a draft decision on the need for voluntary contributions to support the Secretariat’s activities.
The US suggested that delegates evaluate the relative merits of binding and non-binding targets.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, said legal issues should be also addressed in Durban.
CHINA reminded delegates of a decision taken in Berlin that "urges Annex II Parties to include measures taken regarding technology transfer" to each session of the COP.
INDONESIA stressed the need for deeper cuts by developed countries and said developing countries must pursue a sustainable development strategy.
ECUADOR identified: the environmental integrity of markets; measuring, reporting and verification (MRV) of financial support; and adaptation as “crucial” issues.
The EU supported CDM assistance for adaptation, but stressed a focus on mitigation.
She also lamented unpredictability of funds for the Global Observing System for Climate in Support of the UNFCCC, and lamented the lack of funding for the LDC work programme.
JAPAN said consideration of national capabilities and circumstances was not “categorical” but depended on each country.
POLAND proposed that Parties with economies in transition present emission level projections from “base years” rather than 1990.
With INDIA, he urged giving priority to the AWG-LCA.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by several developing countries, clarified that, although there are a number of substantive issues that must still be resolved, the text can be used as the basis of work.
CANADA asked whether facilitating cooperation would be a bilateral, trilateral or multilateral exercise.
He said this would mean emissions reductions of between 60-80% by 2050 for industrialized countries, assuming US participation.
SWITZERLAND highlighted that proposals on an activity-based approach prevent selective accounting.
JAPAN stressed consideration of host country conditions.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA noted the need for a comprehensive outcome at COP 15.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA called for a procedural outcome.
INDIA and CANADA also favored drawing heavily from existing institutions.
NORWAY expressed concern over duplication of work and proposed forwarding issues relating to technology transfer to the contact group on technology, while EGYPT and MEXICO supported keeping the technology reference in the text.
 \t\t\tThe US, Japan and the Russian Federation initially favored a zero \t\t\tnominal increase, while Nigeria, speaking for the G-77/China, \t\t\topposed a reduction of the original proposal, and asked for the \t\t\tavoidance of any budgetary cuts that would affect activities \t\t\tdirected at non-Annex I parties.
The EU restated that global greenhouse \t\tgas (GHG) emissions should be reduced by 50% by 2050 to ensure that the \t\taverage temperature increase is no more than 2 b0C.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and the African Group said the focus should be interlinkages among all PAWP items.
Several delegates including BURKINA FASO, ARGENTINA, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and KUWAIT noted that the text was available only in English and asked that it be made available in French and at least one other language before consideration.
In the ensuing discussion, CARICOM emphasized macroeconomic stability, and issues related to fiscal expenditure and investment policies.
The EU bracketed reference to the decision that the relevant task requested by the Buenos Aires Plan of Action has been completed.
THAILAND said it would like to see equal treatment of modalities and rules between mechanisms and a balance between adaptation and mitigation activities.
 COP-9 President Pers e1nyi opened the second round-table discussion, co-chaired by Paula Dobriansky, Under-Secretary for Global Affairs, US, and Mohammed Valli Moosa, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, South Africa.
On  , parties received information from Switzerland, Norway, Kazakhstan, the EU, AOSIS, Belarus, Australia, and Croatia regarding, inter alia: clarifications on QELROs submissions and associated conditions; views on market mechanisms; national policies implemented to support QELROs; and preferences for the length of the second commitment period.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, called for: economy-wide, legally binding commitments by all developed countries; a stricter compliance regime; clear comparability of efforts; and consideration of limits to offsetting.
SOUTH AFRICA noted lack of clarity on key elements, such as comparability, finance, technology and adaptation.
Supported by Norway and Australia, the EU proposed to move text on strengthening the Technology Mechanism to decision text, noting that these issues are currently discussed under the COP.
SWITZERLAND noted that a long-term goal should follow the reality of current and future emissions.
In the ensuing discussion, ARGENTINA, the EU and others supported controlling maritime and aviation emissions under the UNFCCC, while SINGAPORE and others preferred addressing them through the IMO and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
GUATEMALA said national communications are too narrow and suggested the use of existing expert forums like the UN Conference on Trade and Development.
CANADA emphasized partnerships between governments and the private sector.
In response to questions from the US, the G-77/CHINA clarified that the mechanism should empower new and existing institutions in developing countries to take enhanced action on capacity building.
The G-77/CHINA, Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and other countries described finance as an enabler for ambition, with the G-77/CHINA suggesting Convention Article 4.7 (implementation of developing countries e2 80 99 commitments) is key to addressing CBDR.
KUWAIT stressed that parties have the right to have their views reflected in the paper.
 Terry Carrington (UK) reported on the contact group 92s work and presented draft conclusions, which SBSTA adopted (FCCC/SBSTA/2003/L.18).
CANADA objected to focusing on technical details.
The EU recognized the added responsibilities for non-Annex I Parties.
Drawing on the example of including aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), INDIA urged countries to refrain from engaging in unilateral measures.
INDONESIA and BRAZIL said ICA should not be burdensome.
Nepal, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), called for ADP 2-6 to organize elements of a post-2015 agreement and advance discussions on INDCs, including their legal form and treatment.
Spain, for the EU, and the US highlighted the role of market mechanisms in mobilizing the US$100 billion of annual funding agreed in Copenhagen.
Candidates for IPCC Chair were: Ogunlade Davidson (Sierra Leone); Hoesung Lee, (Republic of Korea); Chris Field (US); Nebojsa Nakicenovic (Austria and Montenegro); Jean-Pascal van Ypersele (Belgium); and Thomas Stocker (Switzerland).
Qatar, for the G-77/China, looked forward to \t\tCOP-10.
CHILE said the CDM would facilitate access to technology and address local environmental problems, and urged the IPCC to "speed up" work on procedures for good practice guidance and permanence.
MICRONESIA emphasized \t\tthat the urgent adaptation needs of SIDS should not be ef bf bdmixed-up ef bf bd with \t\tthose of oil-producing countries.
The PHILIPPINES deleted a reference to the scope of enabling activities, including various activities that facilitate the implementation of Convention Articles 4.1 (national inventories) and 12.1 (national communications).
The EU and SWITZERLAND opposed sinks projects in the CDM, as it raised questions of methodological uncertainty, non-permanence and leakage.
In the afternoon, on taking stock of progress made by the subsidiary and constituted bodies, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA and TUVALU, proposed consideration of modalities of biennial communications of indicative support.
CHINA suggested focusing on cluster issues, including: principles, purpose, nature and scope; methodological issues; and institutional issues.
TANZANIA asked how the reference manual would consider the differing sustainable development priorities of different countries and ensure equitable distribution of projects.
Ethiopia emphasized “glaring” differences in needs for capacity building in developing countries and, opposed by the US, called for commitments on capacity building.
Argentina, supported by Saudi \t\tArabia and the Russian Federation, and opposed by Austria, Peru, \t\tSwitzerland and the US, suggested that methodologies be referred to as \t\trevised methodologies.
JAPAN and others cautioned against holding too many workshops.
NEW ZEALAND said access to CDM per se is not an enticement for countries to join the second commitment period.
On agriculture, MEXICO observed that the scope of the work programme needs to be defined and highlighted the relationship between the agriculture sector and livestock.
The GAMBIA highlighted the urgency of adaptation action and called for a comprehensive approach, including building of financial and technological capacity and institutional support.
SINGAPORE expressed concerns over this procedure, noting that it could open the door to more agenda items and make the workload unmanageable.
On vehicles, the G-77/China, Norway, the EU and others said that parties should be able to choose the most appropriate vehicle for their communications.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, proposed indicating that the basis for a new negotiating text should conform to decision 1/CP.15, which requests the AWG-LCA to continue its work, drawing on the report of the AWG-LCA to COP 15, as well as work undertaken by the COP on the basis of that report.
BANGLADESH called for mention of special treatment of LDCs and SIDS as set out under the Convention and BAP.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, underlined the work remaining to meet the 2018 deadline and looked forward to engaging in work under the Fiji Momentum for Implementation.
AOSIS proposed adding reference to SIDS.
In the afternoon session, Martin Parry of the Jackson Environment Institute at the University of East Anglia, UK, presented recent research on impacts of climate change across several sectors, drawing lessons for adaptation.
AOSIS, supported by BRAZIL, ARGENTINA and others, highlighted several fundamental questions relating to CCS.
On outcome/outputs, the EU suggested framing the question around long-term goals and the global stocktake’s purpose.
The G-77/CHINA suggested adding a new paragraph stating that SBSTA agrees to further elaborate the pending parts of the guidelines following the result of the process of developing definitions and modalities for including LULUCF under the CDM.
SWITZERLAND stressed that politically sensitive questions should not be addressed technically.
Following a question by the US on the way to proceed, she said COP-6 President Pronk had made clear that there would be no contact groups the following week.
On numbers and inclusive actions, BOLIVIA expressed concern over lack of clarity on sectoral participation and transnational sectoral commitments that raise sovereignty questions.
  In the morning informal consultations, parties discussed issues relating to both financial and non-financial arrangements for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans (NAPs) for LDCs (FCCC/CP/2011/9/Add.1).
The Republic of Korea and AOSIS underlined the importance of decoupling economic development from fossil fuel dependence.
He outlined the UK climate change programme, which is expected to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 23%, and emphasized the opportunities for "gain not pain" in climate policy through cost-effective measures and better technology.
MALAYSIA called attention to the increasingly strong link between mitigation activities and adaptation.
IRAN emphasized the need for preparation of comprehensive reports on MOI and mobilization of support to developing countries.
Describing its proposal on a global goal for technology development and transfer, CHINA, supported by the UAE, stressed the importance of the process generated by the proposed aspirational goal, which would help achieve the Convention e2 80 99s objectives, and enable reviewing the gap between provision of support and technology needs.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted the need to move to negotiating mode in 2009 and underlined Switzerland’s proposal on financing.
MALAYSIA added that the SBSTA shall address this issue at its next session.
The G-77/China and the US opposed establishing a process for considering the TAR in COP and SB agenda items.
Canada, Japan, the EU and others questioned the scientific \t\tbasis for this level of commitment, with one developed country noting \t\tthat, while it reflects a similar level of commitment made by Annex B \t\tparties in 1997, the 93world has changed 94 since then, and a decision on \t\tthe level of commitment should now take into account updated scientific \t\tinformation.
INDIA and CHINA called for remaining focused on streamlining text.
 AUSTRALIA said he has been a strong supporter of the FCCC process and a successful outcome to COP-3.
Saudi Arabia emphasized the need for balanced funding in the biennial budget for items such as workshops, while the US requested more detail on the Secretariat 92s budget and expressed concern over the proposed apportionment between UNFCCC and Protocol activities.
Opposing sinks in the CDM, the EU argued that inclusion would reduce the transfer of emissions reduction technology to developing countries.
In response to comments by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the EU and SWITZERLAND, COP President’s Special Representative Hedegaard reiterated that the drafting groups would report back to the contact group, and that the contact group would then, with the help of the Ministers, address outstanding political issues.
GERMANY indicated that enabling conditions were \t\tneeded as well as long-term market predictability, and suggested a \t\tflexible mechanism for sectoral carbon crediting.
ARGENTINA said his country was willing to discuss new mechanisms but said that shortcomings experienced under the CDM should be avoided.
 KUWAIT, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA supported the proposal by the G-77/China.
The EU highlighted the importance of capacity building for the CDM.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for two iterations of text on all agenda items to ensure balanced progress.
On   (Article 8), China, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested developed countries support developing countries’ capacity-building, based on country needs.
CHINA, for the LMDCs, with BRAZIL, said there is no agreement on what the features are and what guidance can be provided, with BRAZIL noting features should be viewed as reference for future rounds of NDCs, which would help parties and the Secretariat organize and aggregate information for the global stocktake.
On long-term finance, developing countries supported the option that developed countries should contribute 1.5% of their GDP to support developing countries, rather than text referring to a US$100 billion annual commitment by 2020.
The EU requested the SBSTA to consider including reporting on P&amp;Ms and proposed that the fourth national communications be submitted on 4 January, 2006, to coincide with the reporting process on demonstrable progress.
Concerning the CDM in the post-2012 period, CHINA highlighted the need for efficiency, simplification, transparency, certainty, equitability and environmental integrity.
The G-77/CHINA identified the need to clarify “comparability of efforts” by developed countries.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, proposed that the TEMs also identify the negative impacts of response measures.
AUSTRALIA called for focus on key policy and procedural issues relevant to the negotiating process, and for clarification of the Protocol’s reference to establishing 1990 carbon stock levels.
In the joint SBI/SBSTA session on Tuesday, 26 October, the G-77/CHINA underlined the imbalance of the geographical distribution of pilot projects and urged extension of the pilot phase.
CANADA said the TEC and TCN should be two separate yet equal components within the technology mechanism that avoid duplication, seek effectiveness as well as synergies and are mutually supportive.
CHINA opposed introducing new issues and concepts such as sectoral approaches and, with BRAZIL, urged focusing on enhancing the implementation of the Convention.
BOLIVIA and Singapore, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), supported reference to a 1.5 c2 b0C goal.
e2 80 9d The EU, supported by NORWAY, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, and ANTINGUA AND BARBUDA, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested adding to the US proposal e2 80 9cincluding in the ADP.
Some countries, including CHINA, IRAN and POLAND, did not support this position.
Bangladesh described the US proposal as a “better packaging” of the proposal by Mexico for a green fund.
AUSTRALIA called for credible emission reductions by major economies, global cooperation based on economic realities, and multilateral rules for transparent action.
The COP \t\taddressed Protocol Article 6 (joint implementation), the report of the \t\tCDM Executive Board (EB), and an exchange of views on UNFCCC activities \t\trelevant to the international meeting for the 10-year review of the \t\timplementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable \t\tDevelopment of SIDS (BPOA+10), the World Conference on Disaster \t\tReduction (WCDR) and the process for providing input to the fourteenth \t\tsession of the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD-14).
Egypt, for the Arab Group, noted that the ADP work programme must be based on clear agreement and understanding on guidelines in accordance with all the articles and principles of the Convention.
AUSTRALIA encouraged enhanced engagement with the private sector.
JAMAICA, VENEZUELA and MICRONESIA noted that although CCS has potential, it has not been fully tested or proven.
NEW ZEALAND noted the broad scope of sub-paragraph 1(b)(v) of the BAP and suggested organizing a pre-sessional workshop before the Barcelona meeting to discuss both market and non-market approaches.
The EU stressed that the need for consistent progress should not hold back progress on some items.
AUSTRALIA and the US discussed the proposed eight-year work programme with a mid-term review in 2016.
INDIA, the EU and ICELAND underlined the need to enhance regional capacity.
SAMOA presented on co-benefits of the use of solid waste from coconut biomass and said that Samoa aims to become a carbon-neutral holiday destination.
BRAZIL explained that its proposal made in 1997 was to create a matrix that differentiates responsibilities not based on current emissions, but on contributions to global warming.
COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, BOLIVIA and others opposed the proposal.
 \t\t\tIn the \t\t\tquestion-and-answer session, GRENADA asked about the absence of \t\t\tstabilization scenarios below 2 ef bf bdC, noting that even a 2 ef bf bdC increase \t\t\twould be disastrous for some countries.
The G-77/CHINA said it was premature to work toward a draft negotiating text, as Parties were still at the stage of making submissions, noting convergence/divergence and synthesizing views.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and others highlighted that a quota system would be problematic for the market, with the EU noting it would undermine cost-effectiveness.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by POLAND, stated that the decision of the BM refers to the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility," and proposed inserting in paragraph (2), which describes analysis and assessment: "be based on the principles of the Convention, including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities."
 In the morning contact group, chaired by Leon Charles (Grenada), SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by Switzerland, for the EIG, preferred removing reference to the ADP using the information from the 2013-2015 Review.
DENMARK argued that the inclusion of sinks should avoid the crediting of projects that would have happened in any case.
  Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives) co-chaired.
BRAZIL suggested maintaining the current eligibility criteria for LULUCF projects in the next commitment periods, opposed including CCS under the CDM, and noted that programmatic CDM opens a window of opportunity for substantial Certified Emission Reductions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the prospects for outcomes from the review of the Protocol under Article 9, adaptation and technology transfer, the AWG and the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments.
On the base year for additional activities, Papua New Guinea noted the challenge of using 1990 as the base year due to inadequate data and the EU highlighted that a single base year is not politically feasible.
On Outcomes or Consequences of Non-Compliance or Potential Non-Compliance, the EU said the consequences should create a clear economic impact on that Party and aim at repairing the overage.
A number of countries, including the PHILIPPINES, KUWAIT and CANADA, said that the SBSTA should not invite the GEF to support Parties’ efforts on improving systematic observations.
The EU \t\tstressed long-term planning for EGTT and technology transfer in EGTT ef bf bds \t\tterms of reference.
The EU envisaged a variety of functions for the EB, including: issuing CERs; project registration; and issues related to accreditation of Operational Entities.
He adopted an EU proposal inviting governments to send new suggestions or proposals until October 1996.
TUVALU highlighted signals from some Annex I parties that the Protocol "will not survive" and questioned whether the parties were “writing the Protocol’s obituary or breathing new life into it.” He called for a legal discussion of what would happen if the Protocol was to be subsumed into a new agreement, without prejudging the legal outcome in Copenhagen.
JAPAN called for the framework for enhanced action to be in a COP decision.
BANGLADESH highlighted the need to scale up the Adaptation Fund and called for legally binding funding commitments.
INDIA underscored 1990 baselines, maintaining the principles of the Convention and compensation for incremental costs.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern over slow progress in Bangkok, and questioned whether voluntary pledges will reach the level of mitigation demanded by science.
Responding to a request by the US to provide clarification on proposed mechanisms for support activities, the G-77/CHINA underscored that the nature of the mechanisms depends on progress on other areas of the AWG-LCA’s negotiating text.
The EU, CANADA and others requested additional time to consider the compilation.
BRAZIL noted that other proposed items, including blue carbon, are not mature enough for consideration.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR supported adding protection of the integrity of Mother Earth and the right to development.
Bangladesh stressed that language highlighting the specific needs and vulnerabilities of LDCs, SIDS and Africa should not be lost.
The EU cautioned against defining new principles.
Luxembourg, speaking for the EU, said SBI had made \t\tgood progress.
INDIA emphasized the need to address the issue of IPRs “in all its dimensions.”
VENEZUELA and THAILAND said that technology transfer cannot depend on AIJ activities because these are still in a pilot stage.
Following a request by NEW ZEALAND to introduce an additional option in the final clauses, Co-Chair Slade said Parties will have an opportunity to comment on the document.
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, said these were Party issues, and noted his support for full transparency.
ARGENTINA objected that many of the delegates who spoke were not ministers.
Cuba, for ALBA, urged for adequate completion of the work of the AWG-LCA and highlighted support for the Bali Roadmap.
BRAZIL emphasized the importance of advancing all aspects of the Durban outcome and highlighted the main focus of the Durban Platform to create a new legal instrument under the UNFCCC as “an important opportunity that must not be lost.” SOUTH AFRICA underscored the importance of trust and mutual reassurance, upon which the Durban Package was based, which included an agreement to look at the level of ambition.
A number of parties called for a balanced approach, including enhanced adaptation action and MOI, with TUVALU calling for setting out short- and long-term goals on GHG concentrations and temperature stabilization.
The AFRICA GROUP underscored links between land degradation and sequestration.
The PHILIPPINES said there had been a waste of resources in relation to the CGE, and called for a review of its terms of reference.
With AUSTRALIA, he called for dividing the UNFCCC and Protocol budgets.
The EU said the paragraph should remain bracketed for ministers.
The US called for the decision to be designated as \'The Berlin Mandate.\' Others felt that the decision to negotiate a protocol or other legal instrument was a positive step forward.
Emphasizing the need to catalyze climate action and “domesticate it in our jurisdictions,” Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for clear timelines for future work.
With BENIN and ZIMBABWE, CHINA cautioned against the COP losing focus on the Convention.
On the impacts of response measures to climate change, SOUTH AFRICA noted its vulnerability, given the size of its coal industry.
On \t\ttext noting that low cost capture possibilities can lead to storage of \t\tup to 360 Mt CO2 93cumulatively 94 under low or absent \t\tincentives, AUSTRALIA suggested clarifying that 93cumulatively 94 refers to \t\tthe lifetime of the projects observed in the underlying study.
AUSTRIA stated that it has de-coupled economic growth and an increase of emissions and will meet the stabilization targets in the year 2000.
The US and Japan wanted to retain the entire paragraph.
SWITZERLAND stressed the importance of existing instruments, specifically the CDM.
CANADA said the capacity of agricultural soils presents a global opportunity for promoting sustainable farming and said soil sink projects should be included under the CDM.
SWITZERLAND said a positive signal should be sent to reassure stakeholders that the consequences of a gap would not be as bad as some may fear.
On a paragraph noting that funding decisions by the GCF projects will contribute to “low-emission and climate-resilient” development, ARGENTINA, opposed by the EU, suggested referencing “sustainable” development instead.
Regarding a possible draft decision on adopting two indicative scales of assessment, the EU said, if adopted, this decision would set a negative precedent for other multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs), since it would require Parties to pay for selected activities related to a MEA, and offer a perverse incentive for those Parties who have not yet ratified the Protocol.
On LULUCF, NORWAY said SBSTA-10 can make progress on policy and procedural issues and guide IPCC with its preparation of a Special Report on LULUCF.
MEXICO said narrowing the scope to these two issues will inevitably “touch upon other issues.” The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with others, said the facilitator’s note from the Bonn meeting could be considered as a basis for further discussion, but should be further developed based on views and submissions.
The EU, supported by NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, said it would be a better use of delegates’ time to establish spin-off groups to allow technical experts to discuss the rules while continuing political discussions.
The UK said the workshop would inform negotiators new to the process.
AUSTRALIA underscored that rules and legal options must be clarified before pledges can be translated into QELROs.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a series of in-session TEMs in 2015-2017, AOSIS, supported by many parties, called for the process to be organized “at least twice a year during the period 2015-2020 in areas with high mitigation potential.” Brazil suggested adding “options and instruments” to “areas.”
Saudi Arabia and the US argued that the figure and caption were too complex and “full of jargon.”
The EU, with SWITZERLAND and NORWAY, opposed by JAPAN, expressed interest in exploring how the methodologies outlined in the Secretariat’s technical paper (FCCC/TP/2010/2) on translating pledges into QELROs would apply to actual pledges on the table.
 \t\tMATTERS RELATING TO THE LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES:
INDIA, with SRI LANKA, proposed developing country concessions for accreditation of operational entities.
94 The EU called for a UNFCCC workshop and \t\tproposed detailed and result-focused discussions.
Stressing the AWG’s legal mandate, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern about suggestions to link the AWG with the new AWGLCA process.
 The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported providing guidance to the GCF on issues such as what the Fund will do, and how to consider funding for projects.
94 Germany, France, Hungary, the Netherlands, Japan, Norway, \t\tBelgium and Spain, opposed by the US, Saudi Arabia and Egypt, urged \t\tkeeping detailed examples of such effects.
The EU and SWITZERLAND, opposed by AOSIS, BOTSWANA and IRAN, proposed that AIJ be credited retroactively.
INDIA and CHINA called for focusing on the duration of the agreement first.
He did not support the requirement of financial penalties for any purpose as this would, in the US case, be paid by US taxpayers.
The PHILIPPINES and TIMOR-LESTE supported the creation of an adaptation committee and a fund under the Convention, with the PHILIPPINES indicating that matching action with support should be clear, transparent, objective, predictable and country-driven.
NEW ZEALAND stressed that regardless of whether parties would like to see a durable agreement or not, durable elements need to be addressed in the agreement.
The UK and others drew attention to the impacts of climate change on renewables, as well as air quality and health issues.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said that review mechanisms of the SBI and the SBSTA should be used in the AG13 process.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed concern regarding, inter alia: slow progress on Annex I review guidelines for biennial reports, national communications and annual inventories; and that no conclusion was reached on research and systematic observation.
\t\tParties welcomed the adoption of the draft COP/MOP decision, with the \t\tG-77/China describing the Fund as an 93innovative solidarity fund, 94 and \t\tthe EU noting it built 93new trust 94 among parties.
Regarding supplementarity, the EU proposed a concrete ceiling on the use of all three mechanisms.
The AFRICAN GROUP reported that informal consultations among the G-77/China had produced two options, but that there had not been enough time for engagement with other parties.
Chair Thorgeirsson asked Jim Penman (UK) to convene an informal contact group.
The US questioned an EU proposal to end the paragraph with: "with a view to the COP taking whatever decisions it considers necessary."
The US said additional accommodations must be cautiously approached.
CANADA noted that only Article 14 refers to interpretation and issues might be referred to an MCP via Article 13.
BELIZE, speaking for AOSIS, said these paragraphs did not address its concerns.
The EU, Poland, Switzerland and the G-77/China urged that the terms of reference be considered at SBSTA-13, while Australia, Canada, Japan and the US proposed consideration after COP-6.
CANADA supported new mechanisms such as sectoral crediting mechanisms.
The US, supported by Jamaica, for AOSIS, warned against prescribing the contents of countries’ adaptation communications.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over the lack of substantive conclusions adopted during the session and urged working towards the adoption of substantive conclusions at SBI 42.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA added that expert review teams should focus on identifying solutions to obstacles in preparing communications.
Several Parties, including Norway, Iceland, the EU, South \t\tAfrica, AOSIS, Burkina Faso and Canada, urged discussions on energy.
INDIA, with CHINA, said individual efforts would operationalize differentiation of collective efforts.
AUSTRALIA highlighted that the functions of institutional arrangements should include a focus on cooperation, shared information, trend and gap analyses, technical advice and capacity building.
Angola, for the LDCs, called for a long-term global temperature rise limit to be set below 1.5 c2 b0C in the new agreement, underscored the special circumstances of LDCs and lamented the lack of resources for LDCs.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA, JAPAN and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested working in smaller groups to facilitate discussions.
The US and other \t\tUmbrella Group countries stressed the need for a new and different \t\tmandate.
He stressed a linkage to the item on financial and technical support and THAILAND highlighted that the frequency of non-Annex I national communications must consider the availability of resources.
Sweden, for the EU, identified the need to focus on items that could move parties towards a global, ambitious and comprehensive outcome in Copenhagen and suggested giving priority to the fourth review of the financial mechanism under the SBI.
On the agenda item addressing the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse affects), the EU and US emphasized the need to discuss the implementation of decision 5/ CP.7 (implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 on adverse effects) as a sub-item.
On the \t\tquestion of how to define low-income communities, CHINA, with several \t\tParties, said host countries should determine this matter.
The contact group reconvened in the evening to consider draft texts tabled by Venezuela, Russia and the US.
Solomon Islands underscored that time is running out and called attention to the impacts of climate change on small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for adequate financing to cover all stages of the technology development cycle, and for options to manage intellectual property rights (IPRs), such as exemptions from patenting.
The UMBRELLA GROUP expressed concern about bifurcation related to review and stressed the need for specific flexibility provisions to have an end date.
The PHILIPPINES said a quota system would be a disincentive for projects in areas with large potential.
The EU highlighted possible win-win solutions benefiting both mitigation and adaptation and the need to encourage R&amp;D. He suggested developing countries incorporate agriculture-related NAMAs in their low-carbon development strategies.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, preferred continuing the roundtables and said he looked forward to concrete, substantive discussions in those fora.
They worked on the basis of a revised Co-Chairs 92 text and the latest G-77/CHINA submission that contains proposals on a plenary, the submission of questions of implementation, appeal, COP/MOP and consequences.
SOUTH SUDAN emphasized the need for developed countries to provide new, additional, predictable, sustainable and verifiable finances.
PERU, opposed by BRAZIL, suggested linking activities under Article 6 on climate change with similar activities on local pollution problems.
The AFRICAN GROUP expressed concern that transparency of support was not as elaborated as the other elements.
JAPAN and the \t\tUS emphasized the role of public-private partnerships, and many Parties \t\thighlighted other technology-related initiatives.
The US stated that current modeling remains highly uncertain, and CANADA and AUSTRALIA stressed the importance of data availability.
EGYPT, TANZANIA and GUATEMALA called for special attention to the most vulnerable countries.
MALAYSIA noted that the SBSTA Chair had the discretion to decide if and when to organize informal meetings.
CHINA called for more time on, among other issues, technology development and transfer.
JAPAN proposed establishing sectoral sub-groups, with the participation of the private sector.
The G-77/CHINA reminded UNEP and UNDP that they are implementing agencies of the operating entity of the financial mechanism.
The EU highlighted CMA 1 as a historic moment for “those of us who worked towards a universal climate deal and those living with the reality of climate change.” She described the Paris Agreement as a “game changer” and called for continued progress on its rulebook.
On financial and technical support, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concerns about the relationship between the GEF’s Resource Allocation Framework (RAF) and funding for national communications.
Germany and the UK underscored that the Panel is reviewing only the form, not the policy.
CHINA suggested organizing regular workshops under the NWP or the Adaptation Committee, and establishing regional adaptation centers.
CHINA proposed establishing an adaptation fund and adaptation committee under the Convention.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BRAZIL, SUDAN, INDIA and CHINA, emphasized that many of the presentations at the workshop were outside of the mandate of the AWG-KP, in particular those covering non-Annex I parties.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, highlighted the AWG-KP’s “very clear and definite” mandate to reach conclusions on Annex I parties’ emission reductions.
Shardul Agrawala, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), discussed integration of adaptation across different administrative levels.
TANZANIA supported a dedicated discussion on capacity building.
SWITZERLAND extended this to all Agenda 21 major groups.
 The EU encouraged Parties that have not initiated their national communications to make full use of GEF support.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), expressed a commitment to a strengthened, comprehensive and ambitious international climate change regime.
On meeting the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective of stabilizing greenhouse gases at a level preventing dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system, NEW ZEALAND said progress was not nearly enough.
MALAYSIA identified the need to assess how much funding and investment is available for technology transfer.
The UK said there could be a close liaison between the two EU-proposed branches of the compliance body, including the possibility of referral from one branch to the other, and that any conclusions resulting from a compliance procedure would be in the name of the compliance body.
The AFRICAN GROUP stressed levying proceeds from the \t\tflexible mechanisms to finance the Adaptation Fund and equitable \t\tdistribution of CDM projects.
 Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need for a workplan that would include in-session workshops, submissions and negotiations.
MOLDOVA suggested taxes on oil imports and excessive emissions and credits for technology transfer.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to take into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, highlighting that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter national communications obligations than Annex I countries.
KUWAIT proposed inserting a footnote stating that several countries have objected.
Norway, with AILAC and the EU, supported establishing a compliance committee no later than COP 21.
On the NIR, Co-Chair Paciornik said the EU, CHINA, PERU and US should elaborate a solution to unresolved differences.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, expressed disappointment with the slow pace of negotiations on key issues, in particular on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
TUVALU stressed the need for a legal and prescriptive approach to comparability and highlighted the Protocol as the benchmark.
 ARGENTINA said the leadership of Annex I Parties is not an isolated fact, but will be supported by the non-Annex I Parties.
, on behalf of the EU, reiterated the importance of environmentally sound technology transfer and noted that the main barrier is the lack of national technological capacities.
JAPAN highlighted his country’s intention to provide more financial and technical assistance than in the past, in accordance with the progress of international negotiations.
The EU stressed that virtual participation should count towards quorum at JISC meetings, while UKRAINE expressed concern, noting technical and time zone constraints.
 This gathering of ministers from the BASIC group (Brazil, South Africa, India and China) was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 25-26 July.
AOSIS, the LDCs and the African Group supported a five-year commitment period.
The US welcomed the results of the Expert Meeting and commented on the critical importance of improving the utilization of scenarios across the WGs.
The US expressed concern over the ambiguity of “bringing together,” saying that it should not involve consolidating text.
He said the EU is ready to play its part if that is the condition for agreeing to a longer-term vision by developing countries, as stated by the African Group.
The “potential approach,” as favored by the US and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, would use annual data on production, exports, imports and destruction.
The UK, supported by Denmark and the US, said the language would be more suitable in the decision on national communications.
Kuwait, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that, for many, the NDCs include mitigation, adaptation and other elements.
BRAZIL recognized that the work plan on enhancing mitigation ambition is part of the agreement on the ADP, highlighting that discussions around this issue will be broader than a simple reference to mitigation.
BURKINA FASO, for the AFRICA GROUP, underscored the vulnerability of LDCs.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the important and vital mandate of the Bali Action Plan and welcomed the robust discussions in Accra.
SOUTH AFRICA and others supported moving the discussion into informal consultations.
In fact, many journalists and NGOs came to Berlin with the belief that if delegates did not agree to negotiate a protocol (or, in some cases, adopt the AOSIS protocol), the COP would be a failure.
AUSTRALIA said COP-9 should build on the Delhi Declaration on Climate Change and Sustainable Development.
The UK noted that its national communications demonstrate progress toward reducing emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000.
CUBA, with BURKINA FASO, the G-77/CHINA and TUVALU, said the implementation of the guidelines will require additional financial resources and capacity building, and, with the EU, emphasized the need to focus on vulnerability and adaptation, and greenhouse gas inventories.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored that COP 15 gave vital political direction to take the negotiations forward and that the Copenhagen Accord contains a package of actions agreed by countries at the very highest level.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, said the GCF is a crucial element of the solution.
On Thursday, 13 June, Richard Bradley (US), briefed the SBSTA Plenary on informal consultations he had conducted on the topic, noting agreement on the value of a balanced information package and a process for recommending a draft COP-8 decision at SB-17.
AUSTRALIA preferred reference to 93good 94 rather than 93best 94 practices and, with JAPAN and the US, said policies and measures should reflect national circumstances.
On accounting interlinkages and Protocol Article 3.7 (calculating assigned amounts in the first commitment period), the EU and the UK highlighted the potential problem of double-counting and the need for consistency.
Grenada, speaking for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), urged an ambitious outcome that addresses the true scale of the problem, responds with the urgency needed; and guarantees the long-term survival of small island developing States (SIDS), LDCs, and other vulnerable groups.
Belize, for CARICOM, supported five-year cycles, with the first cycle beginning in 2020.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS suggested sections on: scope and nature; commitment period and time frame; preparatory and updating processes; inscription; and strategic review.
The US suggested having two separate and complete procedures.
AUSTRALIA expressed concern with the unbalanced use by delegates of the IPCC report on LULUCF, and noted that the report shows that methodologies exist or are being developed regarding leakage, additionality, permanence and measurement uncertainty.
South Africa stressed a long-term goal should be consistent with what is required by science, and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the goal should be to keep the temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The US stressed the need to ensure that its contributions were used to support the UNFCCC process.
NORWAY stated that “dynamism” involves regular updates and includes all sources.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, noted progress in certain areas, highlighting that new LULUCF information “has the potential to move things forward.” He identified a “fundamental disagreement” between the G-77/CHINA and Annex I countries concerning the focus of the work, questioning how to enable movement in the AWG-LCA when progress is not being made under the AWG-KP.
South Africa, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, suggested forwarding issues related to mitigation by developed countries, market approaches and finance to the political level.
Nauru, for AOSIS, opposed 2 c2 b0C.
JAMAICA proposed text on ensuring significant and rapid global greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions of at least 70-90% by 2050.
Fifteen years ago, the announcement by US President George W. Bush that the US would not ratify the Kyoto Protocol dealt a blow to its entry into force and subsequent effectiveness.
On emissions from international transportation, PAKISTAN and SINGAPORE supported consideration of the issue by specialized agencies.
AUSTRALIA expressed concern that the issue was “stuck” and stated their objective is to provide farmers with access to science and technological advice to improve resilience, productivity and efficiency.
Regarding capacity building, TANZANIA stressed the strengthening of, inter alia, research observation and knowledge management, endogenous capacity, education and awareness, and early warning and monitoring.
The UK outlined the background and outcomes of the third expert meeting, held in Berlin, Germany, in September 2003.
On text relating specifically to Protocol Article 3.14, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES added reference to compensation, funding and insurance.
Grenada, for AOSIS, JAMAICA, PERU and BRAZIL, opposed by NORWAY and SAUDI ARABIA, supported retaining the text in the preamble.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KENYA and Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that “arrangements between” two entities do not imply an equal relationship and expressed concern about the GCF drafting its own accountability relationship, suggesting that the Standing Committee should undertake this task.
Mexico, Singapore, Canada and the US proposed that the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) take the lead in addressing bunker fuels.
VENEZUELA said developed countries should not avoid commitments or attempt to transfer commitments to developing countries.
LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP and AOSIS expressed readiness to work on framing the decision.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL, the EU and others, suggested moving into informal consultations.
Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), called upon parties to observe the principles of good faith, transparency, inclusiveness and openness.
AOSIS called for increased ambition.
SOUTH AFRICA and UGANDA rejected the G-77/CHINA position, saying they were unaware the group had discussed the new proposal.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), stressed that COP 23 must advance progress on loss and damage, including establishing a five-year work programme, long-term support for the WIM as a standing agenda item and accelerating finance flows to small island developing states (SIDS).
On technology, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CANADA observed that the proposed technology executive committee (TEC) should be under the SBSTA.
On an operative paragraph welcoming the progress by the ADP on the implementation of all elements of  Decision 1/CP.17, SAUDI ARABIA, with others, supported the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text.
Many expressed their hope that the Protocol could enter into force by the August 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), with the EU and Japan announcing their ratifications just prior to the Summit.
Chile, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), which includes Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama and Peru, emphasized the Convention as a “living instrument” and the need to be dynamic in its interpretation.
 This item was first taken up in plenary, and subsequently in informal consultations, co-facilitated by Stella Gama (Malawi) and Ian Lloyd (US).
The EU supported TUVALU and Costa Rica, for AILAC, on recognizing the draft negotiating text more formally.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the importance of the Protocol\'s entry into force as soon as possible and cautioned against distractions.
GERMANY announced plans to cut \t\temissions by 40% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
NORWAY noted the need to discuss and agree on the necessary parameters to take on commitments in a second commitment period, including legal matters.
China, for \t\tthe G-77/CHINA, noted differences between CDM and JI, cautioning that \t\tDOEs and CDM methodologies should not be applied automatically.
On sources of information, the EU, US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND opposed a suggestion by SAUDI ARABIA to delete reference to NGOs and IGOs.
The G-77/CHINA, LDCs, BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR \t\tSUSTAINABLE ENERGY and others called for longer commitment periods.
SWEDEN said targets and timetables are \t\timportant and can go hand-in-hand with economic growth.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AILAC, the EU and the US, suggested the Secretariat undertake “technical work” to streamline duplications and overlaps in the text.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported progress on LULUCF, including on accounting rules and forest management baselines.
The G-77/CHINA expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the JWG 92s work and said she would submit text on a fourth option for the draft COP-6 decision.
Brazil, on behalf of ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, AND URUGUAY, said that although there was progress during the week, the current status of negotiation showed a “clear misbalance across different topics.”
Colombia, Saint Lucia, for the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and Switzerland, opposed by Tanzania, supported adopting an INDC decision in Lima.
MALAYSIA suggested a review of \t\tintellectual property rights with regard to clean technologies, and said \t\tany proposal for national commitments must take into account the \t\tabsorptive capacity of forests.
Noting that the GCF capitalization resulted from the Cancun Agreements, the LDCs, with MALAYSIA, emphasized the need for a process on financial contributions beyond 2020.
On the preliminary examination of questions, the US suggested that with respect to eligibility requirements under the mechanisms the determination be made according to the non-compliance criteria in Articles 5, 7 and 8.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said drafting groups could report back in the morning and issues could then be forwarded to the political level.
With AUSTRALIA, he noted a draft decision.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN, CANADA, the US and the EU, underscored the importance of institutional arrangements and MRV.
 During informal consultations, co-facilitated by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives), parties responded to guiding questions relating to whether governance, quantification, accounting and international cooperation are relevant for non-market approaches.
With Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, he called for focusing on implementation of actions and the means for implementation.
The G-77/CHINA said limited resources require selection of priorities and MALAYSIA urged consideration of capacity building.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, inquired about the status of the draft operational strategy, as contained in FCCC/SBI/1995/3/Add.1, emphasizing that it focused on mitigation, which was not a responsibility for non-Annex I Parties.
The G-77/CHINA, with CHINA, URUGUAY and UGANDA, said that developing countries need financial support for R&amp;SO.
On Monday, 9 November, the contact group on non-Annex I national communications, chaired by Paul Malcons (South Africa) and Dan Reifsnyder (US), considered a draft Co-Chairs\' text.
GHANA, IRAN and SINGAPORE said there was no need to include the other subsidiary bodies.
AOSIS countries are not happy but are willing to move forward and will not stop until they get commitments that should have been made in Berlin.
JAPAN replied that \t\tenvironmental and other considerations are addressed in other SPM \t\tsections.
The EU restated its target (15-50% \t\tby 2050).
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said any new developments by the AGBM should not run counter to the economic interests of Parties, but should ensure their right to sustainable development and improve the environment as a whole.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the need for progress under the Nairobi Work Programme (NWP); and addressing agriculture to enhance food security and build resilience.
The effect of future additions of EU member states also presents a problem.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to update a technical paper on mitigation benefits of actions, and develop a synthesis on thematic areas relating to mitigation opportunities and options for cooperation and accelerated action, Brazil suggested referring to “mitigation potential, opportunities, options and instruments.” Colombia, for AILAC, requested that a synthesis be “compiled into a summary and presented at the annual high-level forum.” AOSIS proposed disseminating the summary through a “web-based menu on policy options.”
The EU and SWITZERLAND supported describing the purpose of MOI.
Saudi Arabia stated that there was no need for a new \t\tregime and argued that Annex I countries were preoccupied with an \t\teconomic agenda, citing the EU’s bid to control the carbon market.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for systematic support for NAPs in developing countries.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed the express inclusion of principles in the elements of a compliance framework as he said, the compliance process should ensure the implementation of the Protocol provisions rather than add new rules and principles.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, he called for a decision to restrict access to the flexibility mechanisms to those Annex I parties that take on commitments under the second commitment period.
Several parties, including CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA and Chile, for AILAC, noted it is premature to discuss placement.
SAUDI ARABIA said a mechanism must be found to keep non-Annex I Parties informed about discussion in Annex I Parties.
BRAZIL proposed incorporating all parts of the Geneva text that were not streamlined into a working document.
Highlighting methodological issues, the EU called for ensuring the continuity of rules, institutions and mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol during the interim period between the first commitment period and the entry into force of the second commitment period.
The US called for further progress on MRV and finance, and additional work on operationalizing biodiversity and local community safeguards.
The EU and NORWAY called for eligibility requirements to be addressed.
The EU underlined that after 2020, countries in a position to do so should join in increasing financial flows to countries in need.
 On the level and timing of QELROs, SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the MALDIVES and MAURITIUS referred to the AOSIS draft protocol, which requires Annex I Parties to reduce 1990 C02 emission levels by at least 20 percent by the year 2005.
QATAR highlighted the deficit of methodologies for assessing negative consequences and called for policy selection criteria based on environmental protection goals and the prevention or minimization of negative impacts.
BOLIVIA and COSTA RICA requested Chair Chow to formally seek technical advice from the LULUCF contact group.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Chile, Switzerland, the US, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and New Zealand supported using the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decision as the basis for negotiations.
During a joint session with the “other issues” group, the EU, supported by a number of developed country parties, reiterated the importance of fixing LULUCF rules before agreement on further commitments, with New Zealand underscoring that if there is a significant change in rules, it would have to recalculate its target.
For similar reasons, the US, New Zealand and Norway also prefer Geneva.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and BRAZIL, observed that the Durban decision defines the scope and modalities of the Review, and that the scope includes not just the temperature goal but also the adequacy of means of implementation for developing countries.
Costa Rica, for SICA, urged for concrete results on levels of ambition on mitigation, adaptation, means of implementation, transparency, MRV of action and support, and loss and damage.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said the agenda will require persistent work, flexibility and resolution of underlying issues to enable a successful outcome in Durban.
The US, EU, TUVALU, and PERU supported retention of the Principles.
BOLIVIA said that in order to ensure a maximum temperature rise of 1.5-2ºC, the remaining atmosphere emissions budget must be allocated according to selected criteria, supporting both equity (based on population) and historical responsibility.
BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and others preferred considering them under a shared vision, while BARBADOS and TUVALU stressed that mitigation goals are fundamental to mitigation action, preferring to discuss them under both building blocks.
SENEGAL, supported by MICRONESIA, called for reference \t\tto capacity building.
• requests the LDC Expert Group (LEG), in collaboration with the GEF and its agencies, to further explore issues raised by some LDC parties related to accessing the LDC Fund;
Regarding preparations for COP/MOP-1, NORWAY said that while it respected the legal distinction between the UNFCCC and the Protocol, it favored as much integration as possible.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS
OECD Environment Ministers agreed on 3 April that OECD members would give a high priority to ratifying and implementing the Protocol.
While the EU sought to set out a process \t\tthat might include a workshop or other experts 92 event, some other \t\tParties, including the US, questioned the need for a workshop.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, warned that attempting to change the balanced Durban package will put Doha at risk.
QATAR noted the need for more information on adverse effects to clear up some of the existing uncertainties.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted the need to also consider non-market approaches and emphasized the importance of discussions on finance.
AUSTRALIA called for strengthening accounting rules in both AWG tracks, and cautioned against developing two different sets of rules.
  On Thursday, the US and FWCC suggested adding reference to energy efficiency as an important form of emissions reduction.
Brazil, with the EU, stated that adaptation does not possess the characteristics of a collective action problem.
During this meeting, the US and EU requested that text on the provision of financial and technical support for the implementation of the framework through the "GEF within its mandate" be bracketed pending the outcome of the contact group on the financial mechanism.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and ETHIOPIA preferred retaining text on multiplication factors, and the EU said discounting should be seen in the wider context of, inter alia, benchmarks, and retained on the table.
BRAZIL expressed concerns about the vulnerability of forests, suggesting defining a timeframe for non-permanence.
The US noted that the \t\tdocument contained interesting proposals, and asked that it be left open \t\tfor additional views from Parties.
TUVALU and several \t\tother Parties suggested that wording on project 93categories 94 be \t\tclarified.
AUSTRALIA cautioned against duplication and e2 80 9ccementing e2 80 9d details that will evolve over time.
INDIA noted that when a non-Annex I Party or its policies are affected by Annex I country actions, such as when intellectual property rights affect terms of trade, those actions should be considered under Article 13 (MCP) rather than Article 14 (dispute resolution).
INDIA called for a 2% levy on all capital transfers in developed countries to support adaptation in developing countries.
He also drew attention to US engagement in a bilateral initiative on integrated environmental strategies, which addresses global and local benefits of climate-related activities involving eight countries worldwide.
 \t\tOn elements that need to be further addressed, Belize, for AOSIS, \t\tstressed the need to consider the impacts on vulnerable countries of a \t\tlong-term target, trade-offs implicit in emissions pathways and damages \t\tcaused by climate change.
INDONESIA identified the need to review the rules for the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and MALAYSIA proposed addressing complex procedures and high transaction costs under the CDM.
The PHILIPPINES stated that non-Annex I Parties’ increased responsibilities should be reflected in funding mechanisms.
The lack of progress by Annex I Parties on financial backing and technology transfer was also noted by CUBA, the PHILIPPINES, CHINA and INDIA.
The EU suggested a progressive, inclusive process that addresses farmers’ priorities.
With MAURITIUS, UGANDA and HUNGARY, he suggested consideration of outreach and wider communication of the TAR.
 ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened ADP 2-9.
One group proposed language, inter alia, urging developed countries to increase the mobilization of financial resources for climate action of developing country parties to US$70 billion in 2016 and US$85 billion in 2018, leading to the achievement of the existing commitments to reach US$100 billion in 2020.
The US clarified that “universal individual commitments” imply that each party will undertake enhanced adaptation actions to be included in national planning processes.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed cumulative responsibility and said mitigation potentials need to be converted into actual emission reductions.
BOLIVIA stressed the importance of including indigenous and vulnerable communities in the process.
 Argentina, for the G-77/ China, emphasized that new processes requiring further political development, as well as unresolved issues, should continue to be considered by the AWG-LCA.
The UK, CHILE, MICRONESIA, COOK ISLANDS, SWITZERLAND, the US, TUVALU, AOSIS, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRIA, KIRIBATI, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, FRANCE, the GAMBIA, BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA, SLOVENIA, NORWAY, POLAND, BELGIUM and GERMANY supported the adoption of the Co-Chairs 92 draft decision in its current form.
On financial resources, the US, EU, JAPAN and CANADA supported the draft text, while the G-77/CHINA proposed removing a reference to the GEF.
TONGA, for AOSIS, noted that small island developing states are among those hardest hit by climate change.
DENMARK highlighted her government e2 80 99s 100% renewable energy target for electricity generation and heat supply by 2035, and a complete fossil fuel phase-out by 2050.
SAUDI ARABIA described the text as a “very good” starting point, which has adhered to the UNFCCC and the BAP.
The EU urged adoption at COP-6 of good practice guidance as part of inventory reporting.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 accelerate the operationalization of the private sector facility by aiming to ensure that private sector entities and public entities with relevant experience in working with the private sector are accredited in 2015, expediting action to engage local private sector actors in developing countries, including small- and medium-sized enterprises in the LDCs, small island developing states (SIDS) and African states, emphasizing a country-driven approach, expediting action to mobilize resources at scale, and developing a strategic approach to engaging with the private sector;
NEW ZEALAND drew attention to cross-cutting elements between the guidelines and ongoing work in the LULUCF group.
The UK distributed a national report that he hoped would be helpful to others in developing their approaches.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that this item represented the G-77\'s contribution to the BM process.
She, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and JAPAN, opposed excluding certain parties from the discussions.
The G-77/CHINA also stressed that financial institutions that “we have now” are “empty shells” and, with the AFRICAN GROUP and many developing countries, expressed concern over the finance gap between 2012 and 2020.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, said inventory estimates of a year during the commitment period that had been adjusted should not be revised and that consequently, adjustments of estimates of both the base year inventory and the inventory during the commitment period could not be revised.
AUSTRALIA suggested focusing on: guidance needed to ensure, inter alia, environmental integrity, transparency and comparability; and existing guidance and its gaps.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the need for stronger language on using the Kyoto Protocol as the basis for Annex I MRV and compliance, and recalled the G-77/China’s proposal for a technical panel on comparability of developed countries’ mitigation efforts.
GUYANA, INDIA and SURINAME underscored conservation.
The UK, opposed by the US, \t\t\tsuggested emphasizing the limited adaptation capacity of small \t\t\tholders and subsistence farmers, and the complex, localized impacts \t\t\tthat poor communities suffer.
NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, the US and TURKEY said a shared vision needs to be brief and concise.
JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized that QELROs should be seen in the broader context of AWG-LCA discussions.
CHINA and EGYPT underscored a governmental role.
NORWAY and CANADA suggested introducing their proposals for technical revisions in a contact group.
The US noted its position on the Protocol and signaled its intention to reduce its share of funding to the core budget so it does not contribute towards the US$535,000 set out as a contingency in case of a "prompt start" to the CDM.
 CANADA reported on the Annex I experts group project on P&amp;M for common action, which is developing a methodology for evaluating their effectiveness.
On the revision of guidelines, the US did not support deciding at COP-7 on the frequency of submission of national communications by non-LDC developing country Parties.
The EU announced, and delegates agreed to work with, its proposal to consolidate paragraphs within option I, including: 194 chapeau options 1 and 2 on facilitating compliance; 194 sub-options 1-4 on a governing body, and 5-6 on a compliance mechanism/committee; and parts of 194 sub-option 8 d on measures and/or consequences.
CHINA and INDIA stressed the need to avoid protectionist trade measures in the name of climate change action.
The US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, recommended text requiring non-Annex I Parties to submit national inventories every two years.
 FRANCE, supporting the EU, said that the TAP-M should develop common methodologies to assess cost-effectiveness and comparability of national policies.
The EU stated all countries should seek economy-wide targets but there should not be shared timelines.
Switzerland noted its proposal for a carbon tax of US$2 per tonne of carbon dioxide.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), urged countries not to betray “the expectations of the anxious global population” and highlighted the importance of adaptation, financing, technology and capacity-building support, and underlined the need for contributions to the LDC Fund to finance countries’ most immediate adaptation needs.
The EU, supported by MALTA, reiterated its proposal for a framework for action on adaptation.
 During the morning contact group, parties focused on the work programme of the LDC Expert Group (LEG) and guidance for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
MONACO presented on policies concerning, inter alia, energy efficiency in buildings; renewable energy consumption; clean mobility; and waste.
SOUTH AFRICA underscored that the alternative would be to establish a cap on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, echoed by the EU, welcomed the text and looked forward to active engagement in the in-session roundtables, to be held in conjunction with SB 46, to ensure “that we do not start from scratch.” Parties agreed to forward the text, with minor adjustments, to the COP for consideration.
AUSTRALIA said parties should be allowed to adjust their commitment/contribution on an exceptional basis.
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.7.InformalNote), ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) proposed to intensify the pace of text-based negotiations to deliver a draft agreement and accompanying decisions for finalization at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) taking place in December 2015, in Paris, France.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed satisfaction with the finalization of the gender action plan, and noted this is a strong outcome for women and the climate.
Switzerland, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the inclusion of new documented greenhouse gases and the improvement of the flexibility mechanisms.
On text relating to the provision of information by least developed countries (LDCs) through sources other than national communications, the G-77/CHINA stressed that many developing countries had difficulties completing their national communications, and that other relevant information should also serve as the basis for determining their adaptation activities.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for full implementation of the LDC work programme and integration of recommendations of the 2013-2015 Review in the ongoing ADP discussions.
COLOMBIA suggested that climate change discussions be framed in a broader context, advocating that climate change is a global security issue and that it should be placed on the Security Council’s agenda.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that emissions must peak by 2015 to avoid catastrophic impacts for vulnerable countries such as SIDS, and to minimize the risks of irreversible impacts.
The G-77/CHINA and the AFRICAN GROUP stated that the AWGLCA should focus on enhancing implementation of existing commitments under the Convention and Protocol, and stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
INDIA stressed the importance of bringing together diverse voices, and expected further input to the Dialogue from developing country-based institutions.
The US urged delegates to focus on the workplan agreed in Lima for workstream 2.
The GAMBIA, with ALGERIA, the SUDAN and ZAMBIA, expressed concern over reiterating these positions and called for good faith discussions under the Protocol.
On a request to the GEF to increase its support to capacity-building activities in developing countries, the EU, supported by the US, JAPAN and others, suggested bracketing “increase” and proposed, instead, reference to “continue to provide financial support.” Noting the increasing need for support for capacity building activities, the G-77/CHINA opposed.
 CHINA, IRAN and MOROCCO, on behalf of the African Group, requested clarification on the division of tasks between non-groups and asked whether the non-groups would address P&amp;Ms and QELROs.
TUVALU acknowledged the importance of making progress and accelerating the pace to complete the ADP’s work by the end of the week.
On the substance of Croatia’s appeal, CROATIA explained that the Compliance Committee referred the case to the COP/MOP, as the Enforcement Branch’s mandate does not cover all aspects of it.
AUSTRALIA, supported by RUSSIA, called for cost-effective mechanisms and said that credits should be transferable across the three mechanisms for the achievement of the Protocol\'s aims.
Parties also heard proposals on how to cluster issues in the text for conceptual and structural clarity by the EU, the LMDCs and AILAC.
MAURITIUS suggested a simplified inventory methodology, given the limited expertise of African countries.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA and SWITZERLAND, emphasized the need to find a space to discuss the level of ambition, clarification of pledges and accounting.
MALI called for three decisions from Doha: establishing a work programme on common accounting rules; converting the pledges to emission trajectories; and establishing a panel for compliance.
PERU stressed that the burden of addressing climate change should not be transferred to developing countries, including through the use of trade measures.
NICARAGUA called for avoiding a “lost decade for climate finance,” noting the lack of a roadmap to achieve the 2020 goal for finance.
Colombia, for AILAC, said the text should make reference to scaling up provision and mobilization of climate finance.
 \t\tNoting that an increase of 2 b0C in global temperature would have \t\tdevastating impacts on small island developing states (SIDS), Grenada, \t\tfor the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), stressed the need for a \t\tglobal comprehensive response within the UNFCCC framework and building \t\ton the Kyoto Protocol, leading to stabilization well below 445 ppm.
On the draft decision on the CDM, JAPAN said any requirements on financial additionality should not result in diversion of ODA.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, appreciating the efforts made by Germany, suggested adding in paragraph VII(a) on requests to the Secretariat: "Taking into account the views expressed by the Parties and the paper submitted by the G-77 and China."
The AFRICAN GROUP noted the need for consistency on the definition of vulnerable developing countries throughout the text.
The EU stressed that the first option provides clarity on what needs to be done, when and by whom.
Maldives, for ALLIANCE OF SMALL OF ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), and Honduras, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA) called for scaling up climate action.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND favored a fourth national communication deadline of 2005 and a strengthened reporting process leading to the commitment period 2008-2012.
The US, CANADA, JAPAN and others saw no need for new institutional arrangements for adaptation.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said there is room for improving the environmental integrity of JI and looked forward to discussing, at SBI 42, how to ensure that JI delivers a net atmospheric benefit.
 AOSIS countries accepted the draft, but decried the lack of transparency in the final phase of negotiations where no AOSIS delegates were present.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said adopting the Protocol amendments in Doha will ensure a seamless transition to the second commitment period.
ALGERIA requested going through all the decisions included in the package one-by-one.
 AG-13 Chair Patrick Szell (UK) said the first session of this Group dealt with a questionnaire sent to Parties, IGOs and NGOs, inviting views on the definition of a multilateral consultative process and views on the way in which such a process should relate to other articles.
AUSTRALIA suggested creating a new column in the table on linkages within the section.
 The EU and the US suggested that the scale of contributions to the budget be more explicit.
SUDAN and BOLIVIA questioned market-based approaches.
 NORWAY favored binding commitments that are differentiated, cost-effective, equitable and verifiable.
The G-77/CHINA notified that the group would submit a draft decision.
CHINA said the proposal does not prejudge which technologies would be required to achieve the goal, and called for a focus on technologies e2 80 99 supply side.
The EU said the reporting requirements should be elaborated within the current guidelines, while the US supported making reference to such requirements being defined in the guidelines under Article 7, in accordance with the relevant decisions of the COP or COP/MOP.
Some delegations, including CANADA, JAPAN and the US supported continuing discussions informally.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU said the decision was in line with the Protocol provisions.
AUSTRALIA said discussing the preamble is premature.
On capacity building (Article 8), Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) reported back from “productive” spin-off group discussions on Monday, 30 November, saying “issues” remained on differentiation.
The EU and Saudi Arabia objected to a reference to an “equation” to express linkage between policies and measures and QELROs.
On how to capture the outcome of the review, the G-77/CHINA called for using the discussions and submissions as building blocks for recommendations on the improved forum.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for ensuring the smooth operation of the second commitment period, to commence on 1 January 2013, as well as securing a smooth post-2012 transition for the flexibility mechanisms.
On the start of the annual review under Article 8, the EU stressed that mechanisms 92 eligibility is determined during the pre-commitment period review, and highlighted the need for subsequent inventory reviews to be made under the same conditions.
JAPAN opposed introducing a cap on the use of flexibility mechanisms, while recognizing the benefit of domestic mitigation.
The Gambia, for LDCs, expressed “dismay” that the GEF is dictating to countries which operating entity they should use.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the need to move to full negotiation mode and discuss legal issues in 2009.
CDM: The G-77/CHINA indicated that the host government should determine whether a particular project meets its sustainable development objectives.
 The US agreed that the focus would remain on developed country commitments, but noted the increase of greenhouse gas emissions by developing countries and emphasized that future steps under the Convention must include all Parties.
MALDIVES, \t\tUGANDA and others stressed the linkage between capacity building and \t\ttechnology transfer.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Guatemala, for AILAC, and Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, stressed the importance of making progress on non-carbon benefits and REDD+ safeguards information systems.
SOUTH AFRICA said the GCF Governing Instrument already includes elements that would allow the work on arrangements to be concluded in Doha.
NORWAY underscored the importance of long-term finance.
Noting the IPCC ef bf bds ef bf bdmain customer ef bf bd is the UNFCCC, GERMANY said the SYR must be finalized before COP-13.
With POLAND, he stressed that an AIJ project should be eligible under joint implementation (JI) or CDM if it meets the criteria for eligibility and if the Parties involved agree.
CANADA said it would be useful to focus on maximizing the benefits of response measures, particularly in relation to the world 92s two billion poor.
ZIMBABWE looked forward to the inclusion of developing country experts in the review and a paper on the difficulties faced by non-Annex I Parties in preparing their national communications.
The EU identified the functions of the compliance system as preventing non-compliance, facilitating compliance and repairing non-compliance.
The EU stated that advanced developing countries must move beyond offsetting and proposed exploring a no-lose sectoral crediting mechanism.
THAILAND stressed that the CGE’s work is crucial for improving the quality of non-Annex I national communications.
CHINA expressed concern that moving forward on new \t\tscenarios at present could draw resources away from the AR4 and \t\tsuggested delaying work on scenarios.
MICRONESIA noted the degree to which political considerations have hindered COP-2’s discussion, and spoke against delegations “shamelessly” blocking consideration of the SAR.
The PHILIPPINES and others recommended that the SBSTA consider drivers of deforestation.
CHINA said capacity building and financing should be essential components of discussions of sectoral approaches.
AUSTRALIA, the US and NEW ZEALAND supported legal expertise for the enforcement branch, but with access to technical expertise when required.
JAPAN underscored continuity of existing UNFCCC frameworks and proposed updating existing NAPAs, and UGANDA highlighted their implementation.
BOLIVIA reserved their right to return to the issue.
INDIA suggested a “working document 1,” comprising the consolidated portions in the Geneva text, to serve as the basis for the next ADP meeting.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported a legally-binding outcome agreed by political leaders in Copenhagen and urged the conclusion of negotiations on both tracks ahead of the high-level segment.
He stressed the need for \t\t\tindustrialized countries to take the lead, and noted the EU’s \t\t\tcommitment to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020.
On accounting, INDIA stressed the difficulties inherent in differentiating between indirect and direct human-induced activities.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by OMAN and the EU, and opposed by CANADA, requested the exclusion of a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts in relation to cleaner energy exports.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, stressed the need for practical adaptation activities, in addition to adaptation planning.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and ALGERIA cautioned that discussion of the issue at this stage would be divisive and distract from discussions of compliance and continuing increases in developed countries\' emissions.
INDIA specified his proposal from the AWG-LCA mitigation workshop, saying that the AWG-KP should define the aggregate range and individual targets for Annex I Protocol parties, and the AWG-LCA should consider the collective range for all Annex I countries as well as individual targets for Protocol non-parties.
The EU highlighted the importance of, inter alia, considering different national and sectoral circumstances when evaluating P&amp;Ms, and quantifying the effectiveness of Annex I Parties 92 domestic action.
On reporting of supplementary information under Article 7, the EU, supported by Samoa and opposed by the US, Australia, Japan and New Zealand, proposed text for a section on "domestic programmes," which requires reporting on domestic policies and measures as well as on the domestic system for monitoring legal entities 92 participation in international emissions trading.
Japan and the EU drew attention to their recent ratifications, and encouraged other Parties to follow suit.
21 heads of state issued the Manila Declaration of APEC Leaders, which, inter alia, reaffirms APEC members’ aspirational goal to reduce aggregate energy intensity by 45% by 2035, double renewable energy in the regional energy mix by 2030, and rationalize and phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies over the medium term.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the need to acknowledge inequalities in addressing potential consequences.
AILAC clarified the ex ante process would cover mitigation and MOI, but not adaptation.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tWith regards to the “Kyoto track,” BELARUS lamented that it was \t\t\tpractically impossible for amendments to Annex B to enter into \t\t\tforce.
Spain, for the EU, highlighted its objective of ensuring that work in both tracks results in a comprehensive global legal framework, which limits temperature increase to below 2°C from pre-industrial levels.
POLAND said if Parties wanted to adhere to FCCC goals, they should be encouraged to assume voluntary commitments.
On the inclusion of principles within the text, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and JAPAN, urged their retention, noting that a number of the proposed principles are not set out in UNFCCC Article 3 (principles).
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) and supported the creation of a NAMA registry.
The AFRICAN GROUP suggested e2 80 9cdrawing on e2 80 9d annex I and e2 80 9csubmissions received from parties.
In 2007, the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice President Al Gore for its work and efforts “to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about manmade climate change, and to lay the foundations needed to counteract such change.”
BOLIVIA provided an overview of the World People’s Conference on Climate Change and the Rights of Mother Earth, held in Cochabamba, Bolivia in April 2010.
 SAUDI ARABIA said the IPCC is an objective scientific body that does not engage in policy and never will in the future.
The G-77/CHINA deleted reference to the Berlin Mandate.
The US said Article 3.3 and 3.4 definitions should be considered as a package.
SAUDI ARABIA disagreed with this assessment.
ARGENTINA, supported by AOSIS, the LDCs, KENYA, COLOMBIA, and NAMIBIA, stressed the urgency of the Co-Chairs preparing a draft conclusion.
 AUSTRALIA presented on their 2020 pledges and low-carbon emissions strategy.
The EU identified four areas for further convergence, namely TNAs, capacity building in the context of technology, enabling environments and research, development and demonstration.
INDIA stressed the need for significant new and additional funding.
AOSIS, with CHINA and ZIMBABWE, stated that deliberation of this item is premature given that it is unclear what the actions taken under the Berlin Mandate process will accomplish.
Following proposals from the PHILIPPINES, the US cautioned against re-opening agreed text.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for Annex II countries to provide necessary resources for the CGE work programme.
PERU proposed working in small groups during workshops.
BRAZIL, supported by many developing countries, noted a proposal by 35 countries to amend Protocol Annex B based on the mandate in Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I parties’ further commitments).
SOUTH AFRICA said the EU’s 30% emission reduction target by 2020 was not sufficiently ambitious and questioned the scientific basis for a 15-30% deviation from business-as-usual for developing countries by 2020.
The US supported this and highlighted other guidelines for the GEF as well.
The G-77/China suggested replacing references to GWP in the conclusions with “GWP/GTP.” New Zealand, the EU, Norway, Canada, and Switzerland supported using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for reporting during the second commitment period, but said further methodological work may be necessary.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed the distribution of new draft documents, expressing a preference for the Secretariat’s draft terms of reference (FCCC/SBI/2008/2).
The US and EU stated that IPRs are not a hurdle and welcomed a business and industry proposal for a voluntary consultative mechanism within the UNFCCC.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, said the Global Environment Facility (GEF) had provided most non-Annex I Parties with funding for national communications.
On broader participation, the Gambia, for the LDCs, said this can only be effective if developed countries demonstrate leadership.
CLIMATE ALLIANCE called on COP-9 to address the scope, role, complementarity and coherence of local, regional and national climate policies.
 The G-77/CHINA called for: flexibility for Annex I countries due to their differences in starting points; no adverse effects of P&amp;Ms on developing countries; and no further commitments for developing countries.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted that fulfillment of commitments goes beyond absolute emissions but also includes use of LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms.
On the Establishment, Structure and Functions of the compliance system, the US and Australia, opposed by New Zealand and the EU, said the text should emphasize the two-branch structure of the compliance body.
SWITZERLAND \t\tproposed keeping all options open until ministers arrive.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION asked that its prepared statement be reflected in the report of the session, and called for a notation that a group of Parties raised objection to the text of the Ministerial Declaration.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for clear, transparent and easily understandable INDCs.
The AFRICA GROUP called for specific \t\tdecisions on capacity building for Africa, adding that the issue could \t\talso be discussed in the contact group on capacity building under the \t\tProtocol.
He reassured the US that national totals will still be reported, and that the guidance was for those wishing to go further in their reporting, adding that this is for estimation purposes and not for accounting, which would depend on decisions under the UNFCCC.
 \t\tDelegates agreed to a proposal by the US clarifying that no formal \t\tinterpretation exists on whether carbon dioxide injection into the ocean \t\tis compatible with international law.
SAUDI ARABIA called for replicating the success of Paris by producing and omnibus decision that provides “the full picture.”
AILAC called for a consolidation of adaptation institutions in 2017.
Calling for a prompt start to the Review, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, with Singapore, the EU and others, emphasized the need for a narrow focus on scope in the context of what was agreed in Cancun.
On preambular paragraphs, the LDCs, opposed by the EU, requested deletion of reference to the global average temperature increase of 2 c2 b0C.
CANADA stressed that their target is aligned with the levels pledged by the US in the Copenhagen Accord and that such alignment is necessary given the economic interlinkages between the two countries.
The US, EU and Canada objected to a G-77/China call to include reference to a draft decision it had tabled earlier in the day, noting that they had not seen it.
BRAZIL questioned the role of annexes in the organization of the AWG-LCA’s negotiating text.
In the \t\tclosing SBSTA plenary on Friday, 27 May, the compromise text was \t\tsupported by the EU, US, Canada, Australia, Russian Federation, \t\tArgentina, Bulgaria, New Zealand, Ukraine, Japan, Norway, AOSIS and the \t\tEnvironmental Integrity Group (Switzerland, Republic of Korea and \t\tMexico).
The EIG and the African Group welcomed the report.
JORDAN and ALGERIA stated that the review should not be limited to mitigation.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested bracketing e2 80 9ca quantifiable mitigation component e2 80 9d and, with TURKEY, opposed reference to e2 80 9cevolving e2 80 9d national circumstances.
SOUTH AFRICA requested guidance on future intersessional meetings.
NEW ZEALAND stated that ambition is being hampered by “an environment of finger pointing – you should, you must, you ought to.”
SWAZILAND, supported by the GAMBIA, noted the draft text “provides a landing ground and marks the beginning of defining capacity building.”
CHINA expressed concern over the decrease in Canada’s pre-Copenhagen pledge of 20% by 2020 relative to 2006 levels to 17% by 2020 relative to 2005, noting that this represents movement in the wrong direction.
MEXICO, KUWAIT and others requested more information on this.
TANZANIA stressed that capacity building is a commitment under the Convention.
KENYA supported, inter alia, the idea of upfront financing, voluntary NAMAs and a country-driven approach, and expressed concern with including CCS.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA provided an overview of their proposal on NAMA crediting, explaining that it would address problems experienced under the CDM by expanding the scope of carbon crediting to programmes and policies.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, called for indicators that take into account specific national circumstances.
LDC Expert Group (LEG) chair Bubu Jallow (Gambia) reported on the second meeting of the Group and on progress in implementing the LEG work programme.
e2 80 9d CHINA suggested structuring the subsection so as to differentiate enhanced mitigation action by developed and developing countries.
NEW ZEALAND proposed increasing technical dialogue with the private sector and think tanks, and discussing parties’ domestic drivers and constraints.
The EU outlined expectations for COP 19, including: encouraging new pledges and increasing ambition of existing pledges with developed countries in the lead; a decision on phasing out HFCs; elaborating the role of the UNFCCC in catalyzing international initiatives; and linking the UNFCCC to other processes, including the 2014 UN Leaders Summit.
The EU and the LDCs, suggested starting work with Agenda Items 3 to 7 (mitigation, adaptation communications, transparency framework, global stocktake, and implementation and compliance).
The EU, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CHINA and AOSIS, opposed by the US, JAPAN and INDIA, supported retaining the sub-paragraph, amended to refer to exploring the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects needed to achieve the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective.
IRELAND described the Fund as “exciting” and innovative because direct access makes it unique and responsive.
CHINA said developed countries should take efforts that are comparable in nature and magnitude, including quantified and legally binding targets, and that MRV for developed countries should be based on rules and procedures used under the Protocol.
The EU, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, said they could accept the Co-Chairs 92 text.
 The contact group, co-chaired by Kelley Kizzier (EU), met twice during the day, focusing on draft conclusions for the agenda items of Agreement Articles 6.2, 6.4, and 6.8.
Argentina, opposed by the EU, stated the previous version of the text was more useful, suggesting both versions could serve as the basis for negotiations at the next ADP meeting.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ALGERIA, CHINA and OMAN, opposed “cherry-picking” elements of the Protocol and “killing it.”
The G-77/CHINA proposed that the Convention’s financial mechanism serve the 2015 agreement along with the Kyoto Protocol’s financial bodies, and with the GCF as the main operating entity.
AUSTRIA, supported by BELGIUM, suggested noting \t\tthat the percentages in this section were calculated under the \t\tassumption that leakage does not occur, while the UK, with AUSTRIA, \t\tproposed mentioning ef bf bdsecure storage ef bf bd instead of ef bf bdleakage.
 Co-Chair Kelley Kizzier (EU) invited parties to identify headings, main elements and priority areas.
The US reiterated its concerns regarding the structure and level of the budget and opposed the inclusion of the development costs of the Protocol in the Secretariat 92s core budget.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and JAPAN, opposed by SAMOA, preferred consecutive rather than parallel functions, with the facilitative stage preceding enforcement.
BRAZIL stated that the national communications process was too slow and dependent upon the GEF’s support, and called for continuous reporting.
The US supported hubs of climate experts providing information and tools at the international level and a corps of climate specialists working in countries to accelerate the diffusion of technology.
The US opposed singling out specific organizations.
China, Iran, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Ecuador called for quantitative commitments and, with the pledge of US$100 billion per year by 2020 as a starting point, proposed a roadmap for scaling up finance post-2020.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against a premature conclusion.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said a shared vision should provide a framework for cooperation among all parties, and include a long-term climate objective and ways and means to reach it.
 The US noted the range of cost-effective technologies and policies and said that national and intergenerational issues justify going beyond the "no regrets" strategies.
COLOMBIA stressed that technical aspects of Kyoto Protocol Article 3.3 (sinks related to forests), such as establishing what is meant by net change in stock, must be resolved.
On developing definitions and modalities for including afforestation and reforestation under the CDM, JAPAN and COLOMBIA noted insufficient focus on the terms of reference for their development.
GERMANY urged donor countries to provide the financial means to sustain the operations of the GEF.
SWITZERLAND clarified that the mechanism was aimed at financing rather than mitigation.
INDONESIA proposed a workshop on MRV and urged concrete actions on REDD.
The US noted that it is uncertain “what the configuration of Copenhagen might be regarding the fate of the Kyoto Protocol” and suggested addressing this through language that: “the COP shall take decisions necessary to enable the applicability of the CDM under this agreement.” Algeria noted that countries wishing to use the CDM could ratify the Protocol.
Tuvalu expressed “extreme disappointment” with lack of progress under the AWG-KP and, opposed by India, urged consideration of parties’ proposals for Protocol amendments as “a lifeboat for a sinking process.” South Africa, for the G-77/China, supported by India, the Philippines, China, Algeria, for the African Group, Oman and Zambia, requested further time to resolve outstanding technical issues in the AWG-KP’s text.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN objected to a COP decision, while the EU, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CANADA expressed support for it.
Samoa and the US said the enforcement branch could address specific provisions and the facilitation branch could have broad jurisdiction.
CANADA agreed that reduction ranges were \t\tcomplex and that ef bf bdone size does not fit all.
One developing country group, opposed by two developing country groups, suggested including special circumstances for all developing countries, not only LDCs and SIDS.
In response, the US said that if facilitation runs its course and yet there is a substantial problem, the case should go to the enforcement/judicial component.
 \t\t\tOn a sentence identifying the main criteria for evaluating policies \t\t\tand instruments, China questioned reference to “political \t\t\tfeasibility,” and the UK said this is not relevant for technical \t\t\tevaluation of policies.
BOLIVIA suggested changes to clarify that contributions are not only mitigation-related.
JAPAN supported peaking emissions between 2015 and 2025.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said he expects issues requiring decisions in Paris to be finalized in Bonn, and expressed hope that the Adaptation Committee and the LEG, in collaboration with the GCF, determine how to support developing countries in accessing funding from the GCF for NAPs.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need to ensure the provision of long-term support for the process.
NORWAY presented on policies to achieve its mitigation target under the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, emphasizing the role of renewable energy, economic instruments and its contribution to reducing emissions in developing countries.
Parties were also unable to adopt conclusions on the \t\tInternational Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of \t\tAction for Small Island Developing States (SIDS), which took place from \t\t10-14 January 2005, in Port Louis, Mauritius.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the US presentation raised issues outside the BM process and did not account for important aspects.
Maldives, for AOSIS, Peru, for AILAC, Indonesia, and India said new submissions were not necessary at this point.
Cautioning against bias towards mitigation actions, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested adding text on MRV of Annex I parties’ support to developing countries for the achievement of the latter’s INDCs.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that there was no agreement to include the item on the agenda.
The G-77/CHINA said a CDM decision must precede decisions on other mechanisms.
ALGERIA emphasized the challenges of countries relying on one resource and supported inclusion of response measures in both the adaptation and mitigation chapters.
 After the roundtable, the ADP held informal consultations in the morning and evening on the AOSIS proposal, and on revised draft text by the ADP co-chairs, which seeks to reflect the interventions and submissions made by parties in 2012.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, inter alia, called for building on the work on the national adaptation plans and the work programme on loss and damage and said too much time was spent on response measures.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, urged developing a roadmap for accomplishing the tasks arising from Paris.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for international organizations to harmonize actions under the NWP to avoid duplication of efforts and urged further country-driven actions.
SAUDI ARABIA said that setting a long-term goal is premature.
COLOMBIA, for Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala and Peru, supported the engagement of ministers to address crucial issues discussed under the AWG-KP and emphasized the need for a party-driven process, particularly in the preparation of the AWG-LCA text.
He called for flexibility and disagreed with narrowing the list of P&amp;M. EGYPT said that QELROs are the real yardstick for measuring the Convention’s success.
The EU understood the need to strengthen capacity-building institutions under the Convention as “our common vision” and hoped for the establishment of a capacity-building committee as an outcome of COP 21.
Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, stressed that the second commitment period must be based on a clear, ambitious and precise set of rules to ensure environmental integrity, including rules on carry-over of surplus AAUs.
The US expressed caution regarding this suggestion as it might require a big commitment from the IPCC leadership and Secretariat.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that Cancun should help to prepare a legally-binding agreement that includes commitments by all major economies.
  JAPAN highlighted the potential role of the biennial reports from IAR in enhancing comparability.
SAUDI ARABIA said the Special Climate Change Fund should fund economic diversification activities in developing countries.
Chair Estrada noted a lack of consensus on the proposal from the CACAM group of countries, but said that Parties agree that the countries should be able to access financial resources provided for in UNFCCC decisions.
In that regard, the EU identified the need to consider, inter alia, double counting and benchmarks, as well as defining sectoral boundaries.
ARGENTINA proposed setting objectives for regional groups and further study of differentiation.
EGYPT proposed including paragraph 53 of the report (on the overall evaluation of the Adaptation Fund) in the draft decision.
The US, supported by New Zealand, thought further substantive discussion was necessary.
ANTIGUA and BARBUDA highlighted the need improve governance to ensure that the smallest and poorest have a voice.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, urged developed countries to avoid climate-related trade discrimination.
 \t\t\tResponding to \t\t\ta question from ZAMBIA about whether mitigation “buys time for \t\t\tadaptation,” Klein said integrated assessment models do not yet \t\t\tallow for confident statements about how the two might substitute \t\t\tfor one another over time, since more work is needed on the \t\t\tadaptation side.
AOSIS proposed that the group begin by considering the results of the workshop on insurance and risk assessment.
On the report of the CGE, CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, noted that there might be overlap between the report and the COP-6 Part II funding package, suggesting they be harmonized.
The EU urged Annex I parties who could do more to increase their pledges to achieve a 30% overall level of ambition, saying global emissions must peak by 2020 at the latest and that developing countries must take substantial action to reduce the growth of their emissions by 15-30% from business-as-usual scenarios.
TUVALU, opposed by NORWAY, cautioned against e2 80 9cdowngrading e2 80 9d sections of the text into COP decisions.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the agreement on MRV, saying it must respect national sovereignty and take into account the LDCs and SIDS.
A group discussion on Saturday, 6 June, facilitated by Co-Facilitator Baashan, explored unpacking proposals from Australia, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested issuing credits for such actions.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, lamented the actions of some “major players” who were declaring that they have no intention to commit to a second commitment period.
The EU proposed consolidating elements, including: integration and planning; risk management; issues relating to vulnerable groups; synergies and coherence with other organizations; finance and means of implementation; technology issues; institutional arrangements; and monitoring and review.
SWITZERLAND highlighted his country’s proposal for a uniform global levy of US$ 2 per tonne of CO2, except for LDCs.
The conclusions relating to Canada 92s proposal on cleaner or less greenhouse gas emitting energy were adopted, with the EU emphasizing the need for well defined terms of reference for the workshop.
He also suggested that the EU proposal include Table 1 of the decision by the EU Council of Environment Ministers.
The EU said complementary initiatives should be recognized by the UNFCCC and their impacts must be quantified.
India called for \t\tmore extensive use of the CDM, and the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) \t\tunderscored historical emissions.
The UK urged caution to differentiate between climate events and other vulnerabilities, and for the report not to replicate ongoing work at the WMO and in the UNFCCC Nairobi Work Programme.
The G-77/CHINA bracketed the entire text.
The EU proposed to follow the principle of rotation.
FRANCE reported on consultations held with all regional groups on the special circumstances facing Turkey, saying that many expressed a preference for bilateral consultations rather than a COP decision.
NORWAY welcomed the Chair’s proposed organization of work, and with the EU, supported focusing on essential issues for Copenhagen.
AOSIS preferred considering improved access to the CDM by building on elements in the text related to positive lists of project activities and on text on financing validation, verification and certification of projects in certain host parties.
The UK highlighted its target to reduce GHG emissions by at least 80% below 1990 levels by 2050.
The US recommended that the term “downsizing” be replaced with “evaluating changing the composition of the Committee” to avoid prejudging the outcome.
The EU, NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA and NEW ZEALAND supported consideration of the item beyond SBSTA-17.
The EU highlighted the impact of LULUCF accounting rules and the use of surplus AAUs.
CHINA drew attention to discrepancies and omissions in the technical paper.
The US cautioned against the implications of this for GEF funding according to the three-stage process set out by decision 11/CP.1.
NORWAY observed recognition in the business and finance communities of the move toward a carbon-constrained world.
She said the G-77/China was willing to apply everything the EU suggested on the initial work programme, but adaptation technologies should also be addressed.
 On CBDR and respective capabilities (CBDRRC), Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that the Paris agreement should be under the Convention and its principles, including equity and CBDRRC.
Emphasizing the need to address a variety of actions by all parties in the 2015 agreement, the EU, SWITZERLAND and the US, opposed language applying only to developed countries.
BOLIVIA, on behalf of several Latin American countries, introduced a textual proposal that also relates to Article 12 (CDM).
IRAN, for the G-77/ CHINA, underscored its approach of "principled flexibility," and stated that neither COP-7 nor the WSSD was the appropriate forum for raising the issue of new commitments for developing countries.
The US asked to extend the deadline for submission, but the Secretariat said the 17 February deadline was necessary to prepare for COP-1.
ZAMBIA proposed continued reform of the operations of the CDM to achieve desired outcomes by addressing transparency, accountability and simplified project approval processes.
The EU noted that despite the current low contribution of HFCs and PFCs to total greenhouse gas emissions, efforts are necessary to avoid significant growth in these emissions.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, for AOSIS, stressed the need for Annex I Parties to take domestic action through P&amp;Ms, while ZIMBABWE highlighted their impact on developing countries.
Two groups called for reflecting the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, with one calling for a “central group review system” for the LDCs.
CHINA called for further definitions.
The EU said the annex was not a negotiated text and supported the US proposal to leave the debate to the high-level segment, as it related to other issues under negotiation.
The US opposed a pre-scoping meeting.
URUGUAY noted that the efficiency of agricultural production could be increased through market instruments, technology transfer, and R&amp;D.
AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and SAMOA, said the information to be compiled by the Secretariat should be based exclusively on information supplied in the national communications.
UGANDA cautioned that a decision on this matter would set a precedent under this Article.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested bracketing text in the section on finance, in particular with regard to developed country pledges for short-term financing.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed the need to focus on the key operational elements and emphasized commitment to a strong global agreement to avoid dangerous climate change.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, expressed “profound dissatisfaction” with Thursday evening’s stocktaking starting in spite of an ongoing coordination meeting of the G-77/China, calling for the “fair treatment” of all parties.
The EU observed that it is delivering on its Kyoto commitment and that its emissions are declining while GDP is growing.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for better \t\t\tgeographic distribution of CDM projects and more support for \t\t\tnon-Annex I communications.
Regarding the section of the text on Accounting Specific to Article 3.3, the EU, US, PERU and TUVALU called for symmetry in terms of credits for afforestation and reforestation on one hand and debits for deforestation on the other.
He stressed the need to focus on negative consequences, while JAPAN and TURKEY highlighted both positive and negative consequences.
The US supported working in a Friends of the Chair setting.
AUSTRALIA highlighted overlap with other chapters, said that the principles already exist in the Convention and, with CANADA, preferred to integrate capacity building into other chapters.
The EU reported that no major differences remained in the group that had worked on the first three themes - technology needs assessment, technology information, and enabling environments.
The EU, Fiji, Australia, Kenya, Benin and the UK, while sympathetic, worried about setting a precedent.
The EU outlined: bottom-up approaches as an analytical tool to set national targets; cooperative sectoral targets in developing countries without crediting; and sectoral crediting and trading.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), urged meaningful progress on adaptation and on the Consultative Group of Experts (CGE) on non-Annex I communications.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed, inter alia, a new paragraph on differentiation, and MOI provisions to enable mitigation.
THAILAND called for balance with public sector initiated technology transfer, noting that the private sector tends to be biased towards mitigation technologies.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, inter alia: recalled the need to operationalize ICA in a non-intrusive and non-punitive manner that respects sovereignty; welcomed the constructive work under the forum on response measures; expressed support for progress on the work programme on loss and damage; and expressed concern over the diminishing resources for the Adaptation Fund due to the low market prices of Certified Emission Reductions, affecting the balance of adaptation and mitigation.
TUVALU pointed to three elements from his submission that were improperly reflected in the Co-Chairs’ non-paper, clarifying that: forest biomass decline was not meant as an alternative to forest management; the concept of “force majeure” was missing an element; and the proposal was for net-net accounting for forest management and other elected activities starting at the beginning of the commitment period.
 \t\tMATTERS RELATING TO LDCS:
On lessons learned, FINLAND, with CANADA, underscored good working relationships between all partners and stakeholders in implementing climate change policies.
 The US said the QELROs workshop and a US analysis showed: different views on how to implement targets and timetables and on an environmentally and cost-effective structure; the need for work on possible differentiation between Parties; and that level, timing, location and sharing of action affect costs and environmental impacts and benefits.
BRAZIL and TUVALU opposed amendments to the Protocol and noted that changes needed to ensure transparency, simplicity and scientific soundness could be made through COP/MOP decisions.
SOUTH AFRICA said discussions should consider reform of the international financial architecture and, noting the financial meltdown, argued that existing institutions have failed both developed and developing countries.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized that the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol needs to be implementable on 1 January 2013, for an eight-year period.
The EU outlined their proposal for sectoral crediting and trading, noting many areas of convergence with proposals by the Republic of Korea and New Zealand.
SOUTH AFRICA said a possible outcome in Cancun could include an overarching decision on legal form of the outcome identifying elements of a comprehensive legally-binding agreement, as well as a set of substantive decisions to test implementation or readiness in areas where progress has been made, such as REDD+.
 \t\tNumerous speakers welcomed the Russian Federation 92s ratification of the \t\tProtocol and expressed hope that the US would also ratify the Protocol.
AUSTRALIA, generally supported by CANADA, JAPAN, CHINA, and NEW ZEALAND, called for a simple legally-binding instrument administered by the FCCC Secretariat.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the industry exacerbating the problem should help solve it, and proposed a levy on the logging and timber industry.
On eligibility of Article 3.4 activities, TUVALU drew attention to the insufficiency of existing data, suggesting it would be difficult to base a sound decision on such data.
With AOSIS, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, he sought clarification of the IPCC terms and definitions of afforestation, reforestation and deforestation.
UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de \t\tBoer outlined the estimated financial implications of the COP, COP/MOP \t\tand subsidiary bodies 92 outcomes, conclusions and decisions, including \t\tUS$1.6 million in 2007 relating to subsidiary bodies 92 outcomes, with \t\tUS$2.5 million relating to the ITL, and US$2.75 million in 2007 relating \t\tto the COP and COP/MOP decisions.
ITALY said the 2015 agreement should: show the way to a global low-emissions economy; contain ambitious and legally-binding mitigation commitments; and include clear MRV rules to ensure the achievement of commitments.
BANGLADESH said that the AGBM should not renegotiate the BM but negotiate targets and timetables applicable to Annex I Parties commitments.
BOLIVIA said the report gives a good idea of the differences between countries regarding compliance, suggested reflecting these differences in the conclusions, and called for compliance mechanisms to ensure commitments are met by parties.
 CANADA highlighted the participation of industry and NGOs in an open and transparent process.
In opening statements, the EU \t\tstressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and strengthen \t\tthe capacities of LDCs to implement CDM projects.
DENMARK highlighted the role of transparency in aiding learning.
SWITZERLAND called for a permanent body with approximately 10 members that are appointed by the COP.
CANADA said the first task is stocktaking of the compliance-related elements and, with NEW ZEALAND and the US, underscored the importance of tracking other groups’ work.
AUSTRALIA proposed including, inter alia, quality assurance and quality control procedures, links between national systems and emissions trading systems, and links with the transfer and acquisition of AAUs.
With the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, she called for flexibility for countries with economies in transition.
The EU and AUSTRALIA expressed concern that this rewards countries that overshoot first commitment period targets.
The EU said it expects Lima to make progress toward the adoption of a new global climate agreement in Paris, noting the group e2 80 99s proposed 40% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 relative to 1990 levels announced in October.
The US pointed out that projects differ in terms of how prone they are to leakage, and stressed that the scale of actual LULUCF projects implemented is constrained by institutional and economic barriers.
The US said a ministerial segment is desirable and useful.
Cyprus, on behalf of the EU, outlined outcomes for Doha, including: progressing on a new agreement with legally-binding commitments by all parties by 2015 at the latest; enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition; and closing the AWG-LCA to streamline negotiations.
The EU responded that while the ERTs had a clear role in identifying questions of implementation, it could only forward them to the compliance body through the Secretariat.
JAPAN said facilitative consequences would also apply to compliance issues related to the mechanisms and that there should be a staged approach in the case of non-compliance with Article 3.1.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for reflecting their proposals more clearly in the text, indicating that the multilateral climate fund would provide resources for both mitigation and adaptation, and stressing the need for direct access to funds by developing countries.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA called for methodologies to address adaptation issues.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the need for greater attention to GHGs other than CO2.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for building on the Cancun Agreements, including developing strong outcomes on REDD+.
INDIA supported submissions on the design of the global stocktake and a miscellaneous document by the Secretariat.
SAUDI ARABIA said impacts of response measures should be addressed.
 In the afternoon contact group on LULUCF, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the G-77/China’s proposal on constructing reference levels.
With CANADA, the US and NORWAY, JAPAN underscored the importance of addressing the flexibility mechanisms in parallel, reaching early agreement and developing a work plan for unresolved issues.
The UK proposed saying \t\t\t 93some developing countries, 94 with Sudan, South Africa and others \t\t\tpreferring maintaining reference to specific regions.
Stating that the ADP work is critical to the final package in Doha, AOSIS said that the workstream on ambition was of fundamental importance and a priority for AOSIS, and that ways of increasing ambition identified in UNEP’s Emissions Gap Report should be part of the Doha outcome.
CANADA and the UK said modeling should address net rather than gross impacts.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, speaking for Costa Rica, Panama, Peru and Mexico, presented on a strategic programme on market-based approaches, which is a domestically-driven, self-funded action through programmes and measures, encompassing different sectors and large segments of local economies.
The US supported use of GWPs and IPCC vulnerability assessment methodologies.
On draft text stating that Annex II Parties should provide financial and technical resources for country-level needs assessments and for the development of specific capacity building activities consistent with the capacity building framework, the EU indicated that at this stage it did not see the need for a new fund outside of the GEF.
MALAYSIA and THAILAND proposed joint research projects between developed and developing countries.
On Wednesday, 4 June, LDC Expert Group (LEG) Chair Laavasa Malua (Samoa) reported on the work of the LEG.
TUVALU noted that the bar introduces a new “fudge factor” and urged against the temptation to engineer outcomes.
The EU also gave a presentation addressing overachievement in the first commitment period, stressing that the EU may have a substantial surplus of AAUs.
BRAZIL called for a concise review and stressed the importance of reaching a decision on extending the share of proceeds at this session, while the EU said resources for adaptation should be seen in the broader context of the AWG-LCA discussions.
GHANA emphasized direct access to finance.
On compliance, BRAZIL, with AOSIS, noted the need for IAR to build on existing review processes and for review options that are compatible with the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol and with Protocol Article 8 (review).
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that the agreement’s legal nature should not be discussed ahead of agreement on the substance.
 Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, MALDIVES, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ECUADOR, ZAMBIA, PAKISTAN, ARGENTINA and others, introduced a conference room paper (CRP) containing draft elements on climate finance under the ADP, requesting that it replace the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper (ADP.2014.11.NonPaper) as the basis for discussion.
On the proposed additional meeting, BOLIVIA stressed the need to ensure sufficient participation of non-Annex I Parties, and the G-77/CHINA called for regional workshops.
 \t\tBelize, for AOSIS, called for urgent, practical and \t\tambitious actions, including large reductions within the next 10-15 \t\tyears by the largest historical emitters and by major emitting \t\tdeveloping countries with assistance from developed countries.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA and the US proposed forwarding text on further guidance to the GEF for consideration under the relevant agenda item.
 the EU favored recommendations rather than decisions.
These two amendments would, in effect, negate the AOSIS seat on the Bureau and ensure that the AOSIS draft protocol, as currently drafted, would have difficulty being adopted because it is unlikely to achieve consensus.
On measuring, reporting and verifying (MRV), the EU, Brazil and others underscored comparability of efforts and action by Annex I non-ratifiers of the Protocol.
Bolivia, supported by AOSIS, stressed the need for a top-down approach through the establishment of an aggregate emission reduction range based on best available science and then allocating individual targets based on a variety of factors including capability, with Bolivia highlighting historical responsibility as an important factor.
BRAZIL, with CHINA, supported a return to Chair’s original text on regional distribution.
The EU highlighted institutions and provisions on MRV, the IAR and ICA.
The Chair described the issue of “Annex X” as an internal discussion among the OECD countries that should not require further discussion in this session.
On the reporting format, SWITZERLAND stressed simplicity.
China, for the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, opposed by New Zealand, highlighted the need to define the scope of NDCs and reflect differentiation in the operational guidance as crosscutting issues.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of clarity and predictability in the negotiation process, and asked that the reflection note be updated with suggestions that are still missing.
The EU said meetings should be held regularly, and SWITZERLAND suggested it meet at least once a year, given the continuous work of the compliance body.
  After consultations on Monday during which the contact group agreed on the 2008–2010 work programme of the LDC Expert Group (FCCC/SBI/2008/6), draft conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2008/L.2) were distributed on Tuesday and will be presented for adoption in the SBI plenary later this week.
On   Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for annual inventories by Annex I countries, and biennial inventories by non-Annex I countries, using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines.
 The EU, supported by ICELAND, SWITZERLAND and CHILE, indicated its intention to table a draft decision on enhancing the role of women in climate change decision-making under the UNFCCC.
On FCCC reporting guidelines on projections, policies and measures, financial resources, transfer of technology and other matters, CANADA noted SBSTA’s agreement to hold further discussion.
The G-77/CHINA said there were compromises even in the unbracketed text.
On the composition of the CGE, the G-77/ CHINA requested removal of the expert from non-Annex I Parties in Europe proposed in the new terms of reference.
CHINA called for consistency with the objectives of national forest programmes.
The US said IPRs are an incentive for the orderly transfer and innovation of technologies, rather than a barrier.
In its presentation, AUSTRIA noted an individual target outside the EU emissions trading system (ETS) for a 16% emission reduction between 2005-2020.
AUSTRALIA said the question of a second commitment period is intrinsically linked to commitments by major emitters.
On formalization/finalization, AILAC said contributions should be inscribed in a document and cautioned against backsliding.
South Africa, for BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India and China), stated that the group would endorse the proposal with the understanding that pre-2020 issues will be given “equal preference at the next session.”
On \t\tworldwide storage capacity in geological formations, DENMARK and GERMANY \t\tsuggested noting that the quoted amount of 93at least 94 2,000 Gt CO2 \t\tis an estimate.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, lamented that “very little” progress had been made during the week and called for focusing on the most crucial issues early in Copenhagen to provide solid negotiating text for political leaders.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported the establishment of a forum under the COP.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for capturing progress that enables engaging in “textual mode” in the next session.
GUYANA called for prioritizing work, given the scarce time remaining before COP 15.
Citing a study using different models including costs with various results proving difficult to interpret, the US preferred not to report macroeconomic costs as part of emissions projections.
COLOMBIA suggested that the text highlight that actions shall be undertaken in accordance with national legislation.
The G-77/CHINA also advocated securing progress on loss and damage, and response measures.
COLOMBIA also noted her country’s proposals to amend other aspects of the Protocol and expressed interest in discussing other countries’ proposals.
If these figures meet with the approval of both G-77 and OECD countries, the group will adjourn.
AOSIS said both market and non-market approaches are necessary, identifying the need to engage the private sector, put a price on carbon and drive low-carbon development strategies in all countries.
PAKISTAN called for a UNFCCC-led commission on innovation to address IPR barriers to technology transfer.
On sectoral approaches, EGYPT noted long discussions on guiding principles and asked for the reinsertion of principles in the text.
BOLIVIA called for further work on non-market approaches.
Suggesting that “the days of a purely top-down approach are gone,” NEW ZEALAND urged reassessing the role of the UNFCCC.
The EU proposed adding text that the AWG \t\t 93agreed, 94 in line with the AR4, that emissions need to peak within the \t\tnext 10-15 years and be reduced well below 2000 levels by the middle of \t\tthe century.
BRAZIL said there should be no “second-class elements.” CHINA indicated discussions on what goes into the agreement or decisions are premature before agreeing on the legal form of the Paris outcome.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, and Malawi, for the LDCs, welcomed a full initial review.
SLOVENIA reported that the Operational Programme for Reducing GHG Emissions until 2020 adopts indicative 2020 and 2030 targets for various sectors.
CHINA proposed a special panel on research and development cooperation within a proposed UNFCCC subsidiary body for the development and transfer of environmentally-sound technologies, as well as a multilateral technology fund.
Co-Chair Jim Penman (UK) presented revised draft conclusions.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, called for, inter alia: an overview of the climate finance architecture; avoiding duplication; and assessing other sources of financing.
VENEZUELA said CDM projects must ensure net contribution to sustainable development in the host country, avoid hidden costs, and use project-based rather than sectoral or national baselines to avoid future imposition of targets.
The EU said reporting on adverse impacts is a “learning process,” citing recent improvements in their national communications.
On text dealing with requesting the Secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress made in updating NAPAs, the EU supported referring, instead, to progress in implementation of NAPAs.
He said that the US domestic system limits consideration of levies and taxes, and noted that as the US is not a party to the Protocol, it could not participate in auctioning of AAUs.
NORWAY further identified the need to decide on a work plan in the run-up to COP-6.
On a paragraph noting that the IPCC TAR provides information with long-term relevance in the context of the UNFCCC ef bf bds ultimate objective, MALAYSIA, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested deleting a sentence on the need to explore the balance between mitigation and adaptation, while CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA suggested removing the entire paragraph.
The US expressed concern at this issue being introduced at this stage.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for text addressing the full set of issues in the Bali Action Plan, and for a second commitment period that enables scaling up ambition before 2014.
On CCS and response measures, SWITZERLAND indicated that parties’ views remain divergent, while expressing hope that after further consultations, a new text proposal could be submitted.
Stressing the need for a more holistic approach to adaptation, BOLIVIA emphasized that developing countries cannot continuously adapt and urged developed countries to start adapting their way of life.
CHINA said global projections alone are far from enough for countries and regions to formulate policies and strategies.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that the AGBM should concentrate on its given mandate and tasks and that the analyses and assessments of measures should be confined to the consideration of strengthening Annex I Parties\' commitments.
The NETHERLANDS noted some participants 92 view that it is important for all developing countries, including LDCs, to be producing their national communications, as the vulnerability assessment and adaptation sections will be of value to all developing countries in identifying adaptation options.
On long-term finance, developing countries supported the option that developed countries should commit 1.5% of their GDP to support developing countries, rather than text referring to a US$100 billion commitment annually by 2020.
SOUTH AFRICA and SAUDI ARABIA called for clear rules for information gathering.
AUSTRALIA said the UNFCCC should facilitate the implementation of adaptation activities, but that priorities should be set at the national level.
  BELARUS, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, lamented that Belarus had not yet been included in Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol, and requested support for including their Joint Implementation projects on the UNFCCC website before the adopted amendment to Protocol Annex B comes into force.
INDIA outlined that deeper emission cuts by developed countries would positively impact on the price of CERs, which would be beneficial to the Fund.
Submissions were received from the G-77/China and the EU, and a joint submission was received from Japan and the US, which highlighted selection process for the host of the CTCN, financing of the CTCN, and clarity on the interaction between the TEC and the CTCN.
TIMOR LESTE said that financing should be transparent and easy to access through a short process.
The EU called for a collective effort for all to develop low-carbon development strategies.
The UMBRELLA GROUP underlined the need to deliver technical work and maintain broader awareness of implementation progress and make progress on institutional mechanisms for mitigation, adaptation and capacity building.
BRAZIL said the major tasks of this group are to decide collectively on overall emissions and to apply the concept of common but differentiated responsibility.
Instead, the US seeks to recommend ways in which all Parties can move forward.
The EU expressed preference for, inter alia, formulations addressing: the needs of the most vulnerable countries; simplified access to financial resources while maintaining principles of sound financial management; and leveraging other forms of financial resources, such as private-sector financing.
The LDCs, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP and BANGLADESH, emphasized that the special circumstances faced by African countries and the LDCs are referenced in the Convention and stressed the importance of reflecting this in the text.
Returning to the US proposal on Friday, 14 June, the US stressed interest in participating as an observer to the CDM Executive Board, and encouraged greater participation by NGOs.
CHINA expressed satisfaction with the GEF’s fifth replenishment and called on contributing countries to expedite payments and for the GEF to streamline the project preparation and approval process.
  Hugh Sealy, Grenada, outlined AOSIS’ expectations that the framework: define relationships between the UNFCCC and other approaches, and between market and non-market approaches; deliver real mitigation benefits; and not allow countries to evade their obligations under the Convention.
GERMANY, supported by NORWAY, requested more time to consider \t\tthe revisions contained in IPCC-XXV/Doc.
JAPAN asked about the difference between adaptation and development.
The US, supported by the EU, proposed changing the language to "facilitate the implementation of the reporting commitments of non-Annex I countries."
The US said the governing instrument should be approved in Durban.
BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA, and SERBIA and MONTENEGRO indicated it could not support Croatia 92s greenhouse gas emissions inventory adjustments for the 1990 base year.
The US clarified that e2 80 9cuniversal individual commitments e2 80 9d imply that each party will undertake enhanced adaptation actions to be included in national planning processes.
They were divided over exact membership numbers, with the EU, SLOVENIA, the US and others favoring 15 or fewer members for administrative efficiency while the G-77/CHINA called for 25 members to allow the inclusion of a broader competence base and avoid difficulties with constituting a separate roster of experts.
SOUTH AFRICA underscored that the 2015 agreement should, inter alia: incorporate a finance goal of a minimum of US$100 billion per year by 2020, and contain individual legally-binding commitments, based on internationally agreed criteria.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, urged sufficient time be given for regional and negotiating groups to consider the text.
KAZAKHSTAN said his country is ready to \t\tundertake voluntary commitments for greenhouse gas emissions reductions.
BANGLADESH supported a multilateral CDM programme for LDCs.
Instead of referring to “full \t\t\tcost of adaptation,” as suggested by the EU, delegates agreed to \t\t\tTuvalu’s proposal that the funding will “assist in meeting the cost \t\t\tof adaptation.”
Identifying INDCs as the e2 80 9cvehicle e2 80 9d for mitigation, the UK called for other approaches to address adaptation and finance, and urged agreement on an assessment phase.
DENMARK stressed \t\tgeo-referencing of scenarios.
BOLIVIA called for considering the atmospheric budget from 1750 to 2050, calculating an equitable share of that budget per capita as well as the amount each country has emitted per capita, and using this figure to determine responsibility for emission reductions.
The EU, opposed by Argentina, noted that the substantive text applicable to “all” parties was being streamlined while numerous options referring to developed countries remained in the text, underscoring this could be an unbalanced approach.
The US observed that relevant mechanisms, such as the Adaptation Committee, have been set up, noting however concerns on how the mechanisms would work.
The EU, the Environmental Integrity Group, Norway and Chile agreed, but said the approach is not yet mature.
CANADA underscored the importance of developing realistic review guidelines and, with the US, called for a more streamlined approach.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the need for political decisions and flexibility.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: agreement on results-based objectives; conformity with Convention principles; and consideration of mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation.
The EU, Japan, New Zealand and others highlighted that a quota system would be problematic for the market, with the EU noting it would undermine cost-effectiveness.
On INDCs, the European Union (EU) called for ADP 2-6 to focus on defining: the role of INDCs in operationalizing differentiation; measuring, reporting and verification (MRV) rules; and a cycle for increasing post-2020 ambition.
BRAZIL said the guidance should assist countries in preparing and submitting their NDCs, and not determine their nature.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US, preferred to replace a list of information requests with a reference to a paragraph on identification of effects and impacts.
ALGERIA added that discussions had also addressed, inter alia, the guiding principles for the global goal and peaking, with many parties supporting historical responsibility.
On unilateral funding of CDM projects, JAPAN asked whether unilaterally-funded projects were consistent with the concept of CDM.
CANADA noted that the report on performance indicators is the final report.
 In the opening SBI plenary on 4 June, the Secretariat introduced this agenda item (FCCC/SBI/2008/3 &amp; INF.6), highlighting the US$6 million shortfall due to the depreciating US dollar.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored the need to fulfill the mandate of a legally-binding outcome.
The LDCs stressed that financial flows should be scaled up to 1.5% of the GDP of developed countries and that 70% of adaptation funds should be earmarked for LDCs, SIDS and African countries.
He provided a partial list of organizations that could provide inputs on the following: analysis on the AOSIS protocol and the German and UK proposals; market and sectoral approaches; fiscal mechanisms and activities implemented jointly; future forecasts and historic emission trends, energy, successful technological options, and methane.
The guidelines, attached as an addendum (FCCC/CP/1999/L.11/Add.1), were adopted after CHINA amended the text to state that the purpose of the technical review is to assist 93Annex I Parties 94 instead of 93all Parties 94 in gaining experience relevant to the preparation of guidelines related to Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8.
NORWAY suggested that the decision, inter alia, take note of activities such as the 2018 in-session workshop on long-term climate finance and biennial high-level ministerial dialogue on climate finance.
The US supported one decision for both and, with JAPAN, opposed compensation for adverse effects.
INDONESIA stressed development needs and the importance of addressing adaptation and financial and technological support as well as mitigation.
EGYPT proposed an adaptation committee of experts and NEPAL suggested a climate research center in the Himalayas.
The G-77/CHINA encouraged continued funding.
The US highlighted the incorporation of IPCC good practice guidance.
IRELAND supported the EU call for clear qualitative and quantitative ceilings on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
INDIA called for guidance on the formulation of REDD+ action plans and capacity building.
Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and SOUTH AFRICA suggested reflecting in the preamble that all countries need adaptation actions, but focusing on developing countries in the main text.
The BAHAMAS, with the GAMBIA, underlined urgency of emission reductions.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, opposed referring to the findings.
On the review of the financial mechanism, SWITZERLAND called for this review to address the function and role of GEF, the accountability and quality control of GEF resources and an evaluation of enabling activities.
The US noted that a number of chapters covered technology transfer and finance.
The EU said low-carbon development strategies are not a prerequisite for support and that the NAMA registry would help to coordinate actions with support, and also cover planning and elaboration.
AUSTRALIA said the COP/MOP could have a final say on manifestly unjust decisions.
Noting that the section on flooded lands \t\trepresented a prudent compromise, CANADA supported acceptance of the \t\t2006 Guidelines as drafted.
The EU supported establishing a new market-based mechanism in Durban.
MEXICO called for strengthening the Protocol through an amendment in accordance with the AWG-KP’s mandate.
The US amended the paragraph and added a reference to Article 4.2(b) in place of "greenhouse gas emissions."
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, emphasized the role of adaptation communications in assessing scale of needs and supporting an effective global stocktake.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that the word "state-of-the-art" was included in the SBSTA report.
On methodological challenges for NAMA preparation and implementation, INDONESIA mentioned, inter alia: “constructing business as usual” projections and establishing baselines; selection of effective and efficient mitigation actions and financial schemes; and stakeholder engagement.
A number of \t\tcountries, including BELGIUM, DENMARK, FRANCE and GERMANY, supported the \t\tinclusion of some sort of reference to risks.
On a paragraph on accelerating activities under the ADP workplan on enhancing mitigation ambition by undertaking an in-depth technical examination process from 2015-2020, CANADA preferred technical examination from 2015-2017.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION drew attention to problems with net emissions and noted the absence of a recognized principle on accounting for timber exports.
The US did not support deciding at COP-7 on the frequency of submission of national communications by non-LDC developing country Parties.
IRAN announced its leadership of a regional center for early-warning systems in collaboration with regional institutions.
CHINA said a shared vision needs to consider the four building blocks, as well as sustainable development.
 \t\tSouth Africa, for the G-77/China, emphasized that consideration of \t\tindicative ranges for Annex I emission reductions has not been finalized \t\tand looked forward to finalizing these discussions when returning to \t\tthis agenda item at AWG 5.
NEW ZEALAND called for using existing reporting mechanisms, noting that COP decisions will enable action pre-2020.
VENEZUELA said the amendment and its provisional application must be considered separately.
SPAIN, on behalf of EU, proposed that methodologies should not include statistical adjustments.
SAUDI ARABIA sought clarification on the meeting’s arrangements and agenda.
Parties also considered five submissions from parties on the Standing Committee from the Group of 77/China, the African Group, some members of the Umbrella Group, the EU, Turkey and India.
AUSTRALIA and AOSIS, opposed by the LMDCs, supported a technical paper on triggers.
The EU encouraged \t\tKazakhstan to ratify the Protocol first and defer consideration of its \t\trequest to COP/MOP 3.
The EU proposed adding a reference to limiting the global temperature increase to below 2 or 1.5 c2 b0C, consistent with IPCC AR5.
While AUSTRALIA, POLAND, CANADA and the US favored bracketing text, the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA stressed that this was not a negotiation and suggested instead that Parties focus only on "inclusions" to the text.
The NETHERLANDS stressed the role of transparency and democracy in upholding the intergovernmental character of the process, and the importance of partnership for progress to take place.
In the draft text, the PHILIPPINES, supported by BANGLADESH, introduced language reflecting the human rights consequences of a global average temperature increase of 2 c2 b0C.
  The Eighth Meeting of the Leaders’ Representatives of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate took place in New York, US, from 20-21 September 2010, and was attended by officials from 17 major economies, as well as the UN, Barbados, Denmark, Egypt, Singapore and Spain.
The EU suggested \t\t\treference to Decision 5/CMP.2 and the Environmental Integrity Group \t\t\tto Decision 5/CP.7 and “areas identified as priorities” by other \t\t\trelevant decisions.
On commitments, TURKEY said the scope of contributions should remain at parties e2 80 99 discretion.
She noted that the G-77/China and the EU have submitted proposals for a draft COP decision, and invited the G-77/China and the EU to explain their submissions.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the High-Level Conference on World Food Security in Rome, emphasizing the “devastating” impacts of increased biofuel production on poverty levels.
Colombia, for AILAC, NORWAY and CANADA specified that countries that do not ratify the agreement should not take part in decision making under the governing body.
HUNGARY suggested that the AIJ experience should be used to implement JI, and the EU said it could be used to elaborate the CDM Reference Manual.
The EU elaborated on two formulae: for a ceiling on net transfers and for a ceiling on net acquisitions.
In the contact \t\t\tgroup, the US observed that although the synthesis report \t\t\t(FCCC/SBI/2007/14) of outcomes from the regional workshops and \t\t\texpert meeting on adaptation under \t\t\tDecision 1/CP.10 contained a \t\t\tnumber of good ideas, not all may be actionable by the SBI.
He welcomed the US delegation and stated that the US is now “back in the game.”
Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that the COP Bureau “formulation” was used to form the legal and linguistic review group, excluding the LDCs.
ZAMBIA urged bringing adaptation action to the same level as mitigation.
In response to the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, COP 21 President Fabius said that the Russian language version is being finalized and that all languages will be respected.
On participation, the EU outlined its two-track approach.
EGYPT noted its concern with an uneven distribution of work between the two negotiating tracks which “may lead to uneven progress,” and BURUNDI urged the AWG-KP to match its progress with the AWG-LCA.
TURKEY suggested that provision of funds for adaptation be based on vulnerability of countries and their technological and financial capacity to address climate change.
BRAZIL noted that the drafts did not adequately reflect some positions, especially the one on Article 6.2 (ITMOs), which he said was unbalanced in favor of project-based activities, and on Article 6.4 (mechanism) where the international registry was not sufficiently prominent.
The EU stated that, according to the rules of procedure, it is for the COP to determine the issues to be considered by the Subsidiary Bodies.
CHINA said the 2015 agreement must be built on the agreed outcome of the Bali process and implementation of commitments under the Convention.
Spain, for the EU, encouraged non-Annex I parties to report on impacts of response measures through comprehensive national communications or as supplemental information.
The UK suggested approaching the WMO and World Health Organization to learn from their expertise in fundraising efforts.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said Paris must deliver an agreement that creates regular updates for ambition.
Position papers on this issue were introduced by the Umbrella Group, EU and G-77/China, and Parties agreed that the Co-Chairs would prepare a consolidated text incorporating these papers for consideration Saturday morning.
THAILAND, supported by TUVALU, called for a table to clarify parties’ positions in order to facilitate discussions in Barcelona.
The EU highlighted progress made in, inter alia: the LEG’s mandate; review of the LDC Fund; fourth review of the financial mechanism; assessment of the SCCF; and national communications and GHG inventories for Annex I and non-Annex I parties.
The EU said the outcome should contain a collective political commitment to look at the adequacy of, and the need to strengthen, ambition.
SAUDI ARABIA said the amendment came in reaction to the EU proposal, which upsets the Convention\'s "delicate balance."
Underscoring equity in adaptation, he emphasized that small island developing States (SIDS) have high adaptation needs for which private sources of financing are not generally available.
SWITZERLAND submitted a written proposal on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP.
TUVALU, supported by JAPAN and KENYA, expressed concern over entering into negotiations on the table e2 80 99s content, with co-facilitator Perrez assuring the table has no legal status.
SAUDI ARABIA said that there should be a decision on the issue or the Bureau will automatically have 12 members, and his group will make nominations in that regard.
CANADA said SBSTA should not significantly change the reporting format at this session.
SWITZERLAND reported on the results of the Informal Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance, which took place from 2-3 September 2010 in Geneva, Switzerland.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, called for the Green Climate Fund to include a dedicated window for REDD+ and a new market mechanism to be established and shared by both the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP.
UGANDA called for review and simplification of the additionality requirement, stating that there are certain activities that do not require proving additionality.
Noting that the IPCC ef bf bds terms of reference have served the \t\torganization well, AUSTRALIA, with support from SWITZERLAND, the UK, \t\tCANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, PERU, and others suggested that a \t\tshort-term review by a small team working with the IPCC Chair might be \t\tsuitable.
e2 80 9d CHINA proposed clustering into two groups: options 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6; and options 3 and 7.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the complementary nature of mitigation, adaptation and MOI, stressing that cycles should take into account all three.
The US expressed concern that time constraints would compromise the preparation of a high quality report.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), called for holistic and integrated progress across all subsidiary bodies, highlighted the role of the technology framework in assisting developing countries to address climate change, and welcomed participation of non-party stakeholders under agreed principles and parameters.
AOSIS proposed language calling on the SBI to invite further views from Parties on the workshop outcomes for consideration by the COP with the aim of agreeing on a decision.
The EU and MALAWI discussed potential areas of synergy among processes under the Convention, facilitating the identification and assessment of risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems.
 MALAYSIA supported by CHINA recommended deferring AIJ workshops until after COP-3 to avoid basing decisions on inaccurate information and requested information on budgetary implications of holding an AIJ forum.
SOUTH AFRICA supported suspension, adding that COP 22 should adopt a decision that captures this understanding.
BHUTAN, the GAMBIA and UGANDA stressed implementation.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), highlighted the need for clarity on legal issues in order to have a “seamless continuation” of the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012.
On   (Article 5), the G-77/CHINA suggested the establishment and purpose of a new mechanism linked to the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
SWITZERLAND proposed a single body performing both functions but with a screening panel that would determine the procedure to be followed in each case.
EIG, the EU, and the Umbrella Group suggested more complex tasks be given more time.
SURINAME suggested channeling funding to local projects and noted that funding could include market-linked approaches.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need for coherence of financing under the Convention and “enhanced support to enable enhanced actions.” CANADA suggested focusing on areas of complementarity and on increased effectiveness of the Financial Mechanism.
 GERMANY reminded delegates this was the first phase of experimentation that could lead to a more permanent institutional structure.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, identified basic principles, including equity and direct access to funding by recipients.
With SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, VENEZUELA and NIGERIA, MAURITANIA objected to this proposal.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said dimensions of the adaptation goal should be both quantitative and qualitative.
This year, expectations regarding progress in Marrakech were, perhaps unfairly, heightened by the Paris Agreement’s rapid entry into force and raised further by the perceived need to send strong signals of unity and determination, given the uncertainty caused by the US election results.
SOUTH AFRICA raised concerns, highlighting, inter alia, work done by the other contact groups.
 \t\tOn mitigation, Belize, for AOSIS, called for urgent, practical and \t\tambitious actions, including large reductions within the next 10-15 \t\tyears by the largest historical emitters and by major emitting \t\tdeveloping countries with assistance from developed countries.
INDIA urged mentioning per capita convergence of emissions and sharing global atmospheric resources in the text.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported by AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN, said it was premature to discuss allocation due to the difficulties in differentiating emissions resulting from national and international fuel.
MEXICO said the new process should provide the way \t\tfor long-term reductions in concentrations of GHGs, and an evolution of \t\tthe current division between \t\t \t\tAnnex I and \t\tnon-Annex I parties into a more \t\trealistic form of differentiation.
NEW ZEALAND opposed a possible screening by the COP/MOP or a COP/MOP subsidiary body since the compliance process was to be independent and of a quasi-judicial nature.
SRI LANKA said the projections should have a different opening phrase.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the outcome of the AWG-LCA should be inclusive, fair and effective, covering all elements of the Bali Action Plan and recognizing the urgent needs of Africa, especially on adaptation.
AOSIS stressed the \t\timportance of renewable energy technologies.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that non-compliance affects everyone, and not only the trading partners of Annex I Parties.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed updates from other bodies to highlight linkages with APA work.Ethiopia, for the LDCs, with TURKEY, called for joint discussions between APA and the other subsidiary bodies.
The EU presented a proposal to amend Article 17 to state that Parties shall make every effort to agree on any proposed protocol by consensus and if no agreement is reached, the protocol shall be adopted by a 3/4 majority.
INDIA said that there was no substitute for countries conducting their own inventories and funds should be provided accordingly.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and CANADA expressed concern with suggested mandatory language on reporting of Article 3.14 implementation.
The EU identified the need for deeper emission reduction commitments \t\tfor all developed countries and “further fair and effective” \t\tcontributions by developing countries.
ARGENTINA and URUGUAY suggested that SBSTA focus on adaptation issues for agriculture, with ARGENTINA supporting the need to submit the HLPE’s report to the UNFCCC.
On the draft decision text, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested brackets around “Agreement” to avoid prejudging the Paris outcome.
A representative of AOSIS clarified that the proposal had been made at an early stage of negotiations when the scenario was different, and stated its support for the G- 77/China position.
TUVALU proposed developing a checklist of socioeconomic and environmental project criteria.
The EU, supported by JAPAN and the US, proposed de-coupling the workshop with the COP-5 process, noting that there will be too many competing responsibilities.
The EU advocated determining the most appropriate body or bodies to take work forward on individual issues when the AWG-LCA closes in Doha, and avoiding transferring them to the ADP.
NIUE called for better engagement with SIDS.
SWITZERLAND underscored the need for more scientific knowledge of causes and effects, and noted that national communications could be enhanced for reporting.
Maldives, for AOSIS, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported option 3.
MALAYSIA asked whether the climate models will have a global or regional basis.
On the inclusion of principles within the text, the G-77/China, opposed by the US and Japan, urged their retention.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the ADP should intensify global cooperation on climate change to meet the below 2ºC goal.
The US expressed its satisfaction with an “excellent” outcome on COI, in particular regarding the creation of a body that will implement the COI Policy effectively and very soon, composed of those with a strong interest in ensuring the integrity of its outcomes.
The US, supported by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, called for all new text to be introduced from the floor.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL and CANADA, noted that some issues need to be further addressed in the draft negotiating text.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the group had stated its position on form and content.
The EU underscored the need for dialogue.
Chair Stoycheva said Jim Penman (UK) would undertake informal consultations.
The UKRAINE said EITs could reduce emissions through using the latest technologies and renewables.
The EU stressed the need to convey their concerns to the COP President on issues including on a legally-binding outcome and mitigation.
VENEZUELA emphasized that the group did not have a mandate to discuss new market-based mechanisms.
The EU proposed text that national communications assist the COP to review the UNFCCC 92s implementation.
CHINA called for switching into full negotiating mode.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, US, AOSIS and NEW ZEALAND noted that while the text did not serve all their interests, they supported its use as the basis for negotiation.
BOLIVIA said the text needed restructuring and supported an international court of climate justice to ensure compliance with the global goal.
NORWAY elaborated on his proposal on auctioning emission allowances.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, called on parties to address the 2012-2020 funding gap; long-term finance; arrangements between the COP and the GCF; and MRV of financial support, particularly in light of new obligations from Durban.
The EU and Benin appealed to Japan not to insist, but Japan stood firm.
BRAZIL and INDIA cautioned against mixing adaptation and mitigation, noting that in some cases they might not be compatible.
The G-77/ China, opposed by the EU, Japan and the US, questioned the utility of intersessional consultations on the TAR prior to SBSTA-19.
The EU welcomed having a clear way forward on each item.
 The EU described the special event as an opportunity to share ideas and stated that the present meeting was the place for parties to present their ideas formally.
The US said that the agreement must be worthwhile for everyone, or no incentive would exist to engage in the process.
Sweden, the US, Kazakhstan and Germany supported it, and suggested identifying key issues and areas.
SOUTH AFRICA said that, while INDCs are nationally determined, their scope should be determined internationally, and, with BRAZIL and others, that they should include mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
CANADA argued for postponing debate on the proposed draft decision until SB-17 to give Parties sufficient time to assess its potential implications.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for a more streamlined purpose, which AILAC said is to catalyze and enhance adaptation action.
Thailand, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), underscored that action on adaptation and loss and damage cannot be deferred to after 2020.
NICARAGUA emphasized that, regardless of the Paris Agreement’s entry into force, all parties to the Convention should be able to access the funds provided under the Convention.
CHINA urged a focus on implementing the existing commitments under the Convention and Protocol and adopting an ambitious outcome under the Bali Roadmap and BAP.
The LDC Group \t\tadded that a portion of the LDC Fund should support other elements of \t\tthe LDC Work Programme.
AOSIS underscored the need for high ambition from all parties; interlinkages between mitigation and adaptation; and addressing loss and damage.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said developed countries should take the lead and developing countries should pursue a clean development pathway.
CHINA noted that an MCP should take action prior to, rather than following, implementation.
Following concerns expressed by the G-77/CHINA, Chair Ashe suggested deferring consideration of this issue to SB-16 and COP-8.
CANADA urged addressing all relevant sectors and GHGs in the reports and specifying those intended to reduce GHGs and those to enhance sinks.
On the report of the GCF to the COP and guidance to the GCF, JAPAN said it is premature to discuss replenishment and suggested deleting a request to the GCF Board to agree on replenishment arrangements.
On possible guiding questions for submissions, SOUTH AFRICA stressed modalities are about “how,” while the draft questions asked “what and who.”
On the question of review/ICA, the AFRICAN GROUP said international consultation should be facilitative and designed to build developing country capacity to contribute to the global mitigation efforts.
The EU recalled that COP-7 decision 5/CP.7 on adverse effects also addresses Article 2.3, and questioned whether the proposed item was necessary.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA expressed serious concern over continued reliance on the consensus rule and “the lowest common denominator.” He highlighted that Copenhagen was not a political but a procedural failure, noting that 140 parties have subsequently expressed support for the Copenhagen Accord.
The EU, calling for the widest possible measures and significant emission reductions, put forward three categories of policies and measures, ranging from required elements to a broad list from which Parties might choose.
 The EU: Brendan Howlin, Minister for the Environment of Ireland, reaffirmed the EU’s commitment to an ambitious outcome to the Berlin Mandate.
The EU and others, opposed by JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported updating the technical papers to reflect progress.
AILAC and Norway called for specific rules on land use.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, emphasized the need to refer to adaptation finance and expressed reservations on fairness indicators.
MALAWI emphasized support for: policy harmonization; communication tools; approaches to analyze climate data; processes to strengthen national systems for collecting, analyzing and disseminating data; and regional databases.
 \t\tDiscussion also focused on whether CCS 93is 94 or 93could be 94 a mitigation \t\toption, with FRANCE, SWITZERLAND, GERMANY, ZAMBIA, AUSTRIA, and others \t\tsaying that it 93could be 94, while SAUDI ARABIA, AUSTRALIA, and the US \t\tsupported 93is 94 with some qualifying text.
AOSIS, \t\twith several others, highlighted the relevance of climate change to the \t\tintergovernmental processes and urged the convening of a workshop before \t\tCOP-11 on developing an international insurance facility to address \t\tdamages from climate change impacts in SIDS.
VENEZUELA cautioned against allowing distractions from the main issues by discussing items not on the COP-4 agenda.
 INDIA said that it had been agreed in Berlin that the existing commitments of Annex I Parties are inadequate and need to be strengthened.
The UK supported including paragraph 2.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, presented suggestions for streamlining the section on institutional arrangements, and called for lessons to be drawn from the Protocol.
ECUADOR requested a reference to CBDR.
NORWAY stressed broad stakeholder inclusion in the just transition to a low-carbon economy.
SOUTH AFRICA identified the need for the IMO, ICAO and UNFCCC to enhance common understanding on their respective work.
This proposal was later withdrawn at DENMARK’s urging.
The entire text was bracketed, following a proposal by TUVALU.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION sought clarification of SBSTA’s relationship to the IPCC concerning the use of its data.
On COP-6, the NETHERLANDS called for progress on all aspects of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action.
CANADA stressed that their pledge used 2006 as the base year.
BRAZIL emphasized that the G-77/China has a “strong view” on the country-ownership of NAMAs and that the process of recording and financing NAMAs should not have any bearing on the country-driven process of design and implementation.
MALAYSIA highlighted its comprehensive national policy that seeks to integrate sustainability at all levels.
TIMOR LESTE said the five-year rolling work plan of the LEG would help vulnerable countries implement their NAPs and NAPAs, noting the usefulness of further contributions to the LDCF.
BRAZIL said a goal would help orient national action.
SENEGAL, TANZANIA, and THAILAND supported inclusion of conservation.
Several alternative texts to the Co-Chairs 92 proposal were put forward by the EU and Umbrella Group, and discussed in the drafting group as well as in informal consultations.
JAPAN highlighted the difference between cases under Article 6.4 (question of implementation raised in the case of JI) and other cases, and added that in the case of retroactive penalties, the concern voiced by SOUTH AFRICA about the effect on innocent Parties would be relevant.
He noted that a request for a technical paper on REDD would require voluntary contributions amounting to US$100,000.
The EU raised concerns over the Chairs’ proposals, including that they: do not bring certainty that temperature increase will be limited to below 2°C; only provide a loose framework for actions by developing countries; and envisage the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol but do not contain legal commitments or a timeframe to conclude a legally-binding agreement under the Convention track.
JAPAN emphasized the importance \t\t\tof involving major emitters.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed his confidence that parties would “deliver the milestone of a legally-binding agreement by 2015.”
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, noted that African countries have neither participated in AIJ nor received funding because donors seem to prefer other regions.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and on Annex I parties to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 45% below 1990 levels by 2020 and at least 95% below 1990 levels by 2050.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, Brazil, Norway and Egypt supported a single base year of 1990.
Spain, for the EUROPEAN UNION (EU), highlighted possibilities for progress on: the NWP; using research and science to inform negotiations; REDD; technology transfer; and standardized baselines under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).
The US, supported by Tuvalu and the EU, suggested identifying elements unique to REDD-plus, with the US highlighting the importance of participatory processes and environmental and social safeguards.
FRANCE announced the cancellation of Honduras’ and Nicaragua’s debt.
COLOMBIA, with PERU, proposed categorizing projects as small, medium or large scale.
In paragraph 12 (taking up issues), ZIMBABWE said the four subparagraphs remain in brackets.
AUSTRALIA noted that an increasing number of parties take on mitigation actions and identified the need to consider the impact of response measures taken by all parties.
On MRV, AUSTRALIA called for standardized reporting by both developed and developing countries and, with INDONESIA, highlighted their joint submission on REDD.
On the title, the US favored a reference to "procedures and mechanisms related to compliance under the Kyoto Protocol," since there are other provisions in the Protocol dealing with compliance.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, outlined the G-77/China’s proposal on constructing reference levels.
On compliance, the EIG was “not convinced” of the need to have a workshop.
MEXICO noted that it was the only one of the world 92s fifteen largest economies to have ratified the Protocol.
PALAU said the agreement must send a quantitative signal to the world on “where we need to be mid-century.”
Describing the Protocol as a standard for mitigation by developed countries, Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with the introduction of options not based on the continued legal existence and effectiveness of the Protocol.
The US noted that negotiations on this issue are keeping up with or ahead of other issues in the lead-up to COP-6.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented pushback on the operationalization of key items, particularly finance, adaptation, and loss and damage.
The US noted findings that this is due to the small number of Parties involved.
The US said an improved reporting system would entail: submission of biennial reports; subsequent analysis reports; international consultations and analysis and the sharing of views under the SBI; and a summary report by the Secretariat.
NEW ZEALAND said national communications include information relevant to comparability of efforts, but noted that some useful elements such as mitigation potential are not considered.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for: commitment to the Convention principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities; equal progress in drafting text on all items; and the final outcome at COP 24 to be a single package.
INDIA said the 2013-2015 review focused on assessment of mitigation efforts.
 BRAZIL supported common policies in sectors of an international nature and, supported by MEXICO and IRAN, cautioned against policies that would impose barriers to international trade and negatively affect non-Annex I countries.
Regarding assistance to countries highly dependent on fossil fuel exports, KUWAIT highlighted the importance of such assistance, and proposed: removal of tax incentives and exemptions from duties and fees in all sectors relating to emissions of gases; elimination of incentives for unsound technology; assistance for diversifying economies; and the development of technology to allow lower emissions from fossil fuel use.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against the use of market mechanisms, the imposition of taxes and levies, as well as fast-tracking certain issues under the BAP.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for progress on accounting rules to ensure comparability of efforts.
CANADA said that the sequencing of commitments had worked under other agreements.
 Informal consultations co-facilitated by Xiang Gao (China) and Andrew Rakestraw (US) met twice in the afternoon.
FRANCE highlighted the Climate Paris-Nairobi Initiative for universal access to clean energy in Africa, which had its first Ministerial-level meeting in April.
He reaffirmed that the EU will contribute €2.4 billion annually over the period of 2010-2012 for fast-start finance.
CHINA and BRAZIL stressed the subjective nature of such factors and KUWAIT, JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA and others highlighted the need to avoid complexity.
JAPAN said an expert group was not yet necessary.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA and BRAZIL, proposed convening the workshop immediately prior to COP-5’s opening, to ensure stronger developing country participation.
SENEGAL and ARGENTINA noted constraints on translation and dissemination of communications.
 \t\t\tThis issue was first taken up by SBI 26 on Monday, 7 May, with Japan \t\t\temphasizing the need to avoid duplicating activities under the \t\t\tConvention and Protocol and the US stating that there was a more \t\t\tlogical sequence of tasks than that set out in the Secretariat \t\t\treport (FCCC/SBI/2007/5).
Sudan, supported by the US, cautioned against duplication of research in the WGI report and the SRs.
However, AOSIS and the EU could \t\tnot agree to it, with Tuvalu, speaking for AOSIS, suggesting that \t\t 93certain Parties have no room for flexibility.
The EU indicated that the AWG-LCA is not the proper forum to discuss arrangements between the COP and the GCF.
The UK said identification of actions is only possible with an understanding of the relationship between climate impacts and other phenomena.
The G-77/CHINA said that while AAUs derive from past emissions and are retrospective, CERs derive from the future and are prospective.
CHINA emphasized that the ADP is only one part of the Durban package and that it includes results in the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
TUVALU highlighted the need for conformity in reporting for comparability.
MALAYSIA said that many technologies are only available commercially.
She noted a lack of submissions received from developing countries and, with KENYA, supported compiling views through a questionnaire.
The Summit sought to help US and international leaders develop cooperative partnerships and promote the collaborative actions needed to combat climate change, and to influence the positions of their national governments in the next global agreement on climate change.
AZERBAIJAN emphasized the need for technology transfer and carbon sequestration projects.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, CHILE, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and others said discussion on reference levels should be a priority.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, highlighted the \t\tshared understanding that our partners 93will not leave us again 94 and \t\tthat 93we are taking this step together.
DENMARK called for the strengthening of international cooperation for developing and applying effective P&amp;Ms, and said those with negative impacts on greenhouse gas emissions should be phased out.
NIGERIA said the ADP workplan should be robust, concrete and time-specific.
The G-77/CHINA proposed a new paragraph requesting the Secretariat to compile a synthesis report on information regarding the specific needs and concerns of developing countries arising from the adverse effects of climate change and response measures, and the support required to address these.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over “extremely slow progress” under the AWG-KP track and emphasized the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
The US suggested sections on: general framing for national adaptation plans; a process on enabling the LDCs to formulate and implement those plans; and inviting other developing countries to employ the modalities for the plans.
NIGERIA said there was sufficient information to take action, in spite of gaps.
On the \t\trole of CCS in mitigation portfolios, delegates agreed to DENMARK 92s \t\tproposal to specify that text noting that 93CCS in a mitigation portfolio \t\treduces the costs of stabilizing carbon dioxide concentrations by 30% or \t\tmore 94 refers to certain scenario studies.
CANADA objected to SBSTA considering documents other than the TAR when informing COP and Subsidiary Body agenda items.
The African Group, the EU and the \t\tUmbrella Group, with the exception of the US, submitted draft texts \t\t(FCCC/KP/CMP/2006/CRP.1 and 3).
The US said that the Committee was the first under the Convention and is not compelled to follow the UN system of apportionment.
COLOMBIA and others shared experiences on the CDM.
ECUADOR explained that parties were close to agreeing on a balanced text.
Urging a move from negotiations to implementation, the EU called for: inclusivity, quality and a sense of urgency in the development of the Paris Agreement rulebook.
The Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), with most other parties, called for requesting a technical paper by the Secretariat on options for limiting global average temperature increase to 1.5°C and 2°C from pre-industrial levels.
The CACAM group proposed the definition "developing countries and other countries not included in Annex I."
Additional requirements for 1996 amount to US$158,000, and US$867,400 for 1997.
AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said no information requirements were placed on initial members of Annex I. KAZAKHSTAN expressed willingness to provide the required information.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that compliance only applies to individual obligations and, with SWITZERLAND, pointed to communications as an example.
US declaration available in RealAudio
e2 80 9d BRAZIL proposed adding a reference to accompanying draft decisions after COP 21.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the US, the PHILIPPINES and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, requested a manual on the Registry for distribution to other NAMA stakeholders in their home countries.
Supported by the US and CANADA, he called for a facilitative session to focus on countries that have not yet made pre-2020 commitments.
NEW ZEALAND suggested the 2018 facilitative dialogue, global stocktake, IAR and ICA could benefit from greater understanding of agriculture.
  Co-facilitator Andrea Guerrero facilitated discussions, which focused on three clustering proposals from: the G-77/China; the EU; and Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, he urged that the SCCF 92s function is to support mainstreaming of climate change factors in development activities at national and local levels.
Malawi, for the LDCs, emphasized, inter alia, improving procedures to facilitate access to finance.
Tuvalu, for LDCs, called for language on universal participation, human rights and rights of people with disabilities.
Peru, for AILAC, underscored the adoption of a gender plan as an important COP 23 deliverable.
She opposed a possible screening role by the COP/MOP and said it was difficult to distinguish between a COP/MOP committee, as suggested by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, and a COP/MOP-established compliance body.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the tight schedule for an intersessional consultation, while ITALY offered to host this meeting in Rome.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by COSTA RICA, MALAYSIA and THAILAND, expressed concern that the option on land-based accounting was omitted from the text.
TUVALU stressed that certain proposals would involve opening the Marrakesh Accords and urged marking them as second commitment period issues.
On the scale of emission reductions, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND said this issue cannot be clarified at this time, as it depends on the legal and methodological context.
On a paragraph urging all parties to the Kyoto Protocol to ratify and implement the Doha Amendment, BELARUS suggested e2 80 9ccalling upon e2 80 9d parties to consider the e2 80 9cpossibility e2 80 9d of ratifying the Amendment and to e2 80 9cclarify all existing ambiguities that might hamper its implementation.
The EU stressed the importance of the transparency framework for implementing NDCs, tracking progress of NDCs, providing input for the global stocktake and enabling recognition of actions.
On text outlining a framework relating to capacity building in developing countries, UGANDA, speaking for the LDCs, said the group 92s position had not been reflected in the text.
Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), expressed concern at the lack of progress under the AWG-KP, emphasizing that political will is key for establishing a second commitment period.
The EU opposed limiting issues for further consideration, identifying the need to reflect all proposals.
The Gambia, for the LDCs and AOSIS, called for: Annex I parties, including those that have not taken up QELROs, to raise the ambition and submit legally-binding single-number QELROs without conditions for inclusion in an amended Annex B of the Protocol; a five-year second commitment period; and a dramatic cut in surplus AAUs from the first commitment period.
NORWAY and the EU underscored their support for operationalizing the Fund, stressing the importance of identifying priorities and following similar procedures used in establishing the Least Developed Country (LDC) Fund.
He explained that these efforts are equivalent to almost 40% \t\tof EU actions within Europe through 2010.
CANADA identified the need to reflect the overarching goal of enhancing adaptation action and decreasing vulnerability to adverse impacts of climate change in the beginning of the text.
The EU outlined three areas of convergence: encouraging new pledges; increasing the ambition of existing pledges; and scaling up efforts in areas with high mitigation potential.
GABON suggested option B effectively mirrors proposals for REDD standards.
On a paragraph on convening such a forum, to review progress made in the implementation of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Decision 1/CP.19 (implementation of BAP and enhancing pre-2020 ambition), in conjunction with SB 42, SB 44 and SB 46, SOUTH AFRICA preferred SB 43, SB 45 and SB 47.
SAMOA, on behalf of the AOSIS, stressed that the BM was adopted at the highest level.
Another topic that was discussed \t\tbriefly was a US request to move the sessional period for late 2011 so \t\tit did not coincide with Thanksgiving (a national holiday in the US).
Although excluded from the final negotiations, AOSIS will not allow the world to barter the islands\' future for short-term interests.
NEW ZEALAND expressed willingness to share these stories domestically.
The NETHERLANDS underscored support for policies based on a view that a temperature increase exceeding 2 degrees is not tolerable.
The US and AUSTRALIA opposed inclusion of "relevant provisions," noting that this would imply requirements rather than guidance.
The EU urged transparency, quantifiability and comparability of INDC reporting.
INDIA noted that the new report by the World Bank on the Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change estimates that US $75-100 billion per year is required for adaptation in developing countries.
The creation of the financial issues group by President Pronk posed difficulty for the G-77/CHINA, who held that the financial issues relating to the decision(s) under UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14 should not be discussed separately from action outlined by the decision(s).
Kenya, for the African Group, emphasized transparency of action and support, while the EU stressed the framework’s importance for implementing and tracking progress on NDCs.
  GERMANY reported on progress regarding the UNFCCC Secretariat’s accommodation and the expected completion of the World Conference Center in 2013.
OPEC said economic diversification needs to be supported with technology transfer and capacity building.
 JAMAICA strongly supported an internationally-defined biome-based approach for forests.
 \t\t \t\tLu eds Cifuentes, Catholic University of \t\tChile, presented on the US EPA 92s Integrated Environment Strategies (IES) \t\tProgramme, which aims to identify integrated strategies and measures \t\tthat address greenhouse gas abatement and local air pollution.
The AFRICAN GROUP noted concern on the reflection of individual commitments without references to support.
Stressing that good practice in P&amp;Ms applies to Annex I Parties, SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed inserting reference to this in all appropriate parts of the text.
VENEZUELA, for several Latin American countries, said institutional arrangements should be under COP authority and guidance in the form of a multi-window system to ensure access to financing.
 On AIJ and JI, the PHILIPPINES noted that JI should be applicable to Annex I countries only and called for a reporting framework for JI to evaluate the benefits derived.
The US \t\tsuggested devoting half a day to each of the four items, with a \t\tpresentation leading each item.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stated that developed countries must take on quantified, economy-wide reduction commitments and called for clear mid- and long-term commitments.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA underscored the need to identify available financial resources.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized that the Copenhagen outcome will be negotiated under the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP.
Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a workshop on common accounting rules to be held in Bangkok and indicated that it should be a full negotiation session.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by UKRAINE and opposed by the US, proposed the inclusion of additional text in which SBSTA draws "attention to the need for additional research on concentration of greenhouse gases which might have an impact on the climate change system."
India and others said they supported only positive lists, while the EU said negative lists could be needed, for instance, to avoid double counting and to clarify that unilateral NAMAs do not qualify under the CDM.
ZAMBIA called for a country-driven approach.
SWITZERLAND observed that the right balance had been found between operational independence and institutional association with the GEF Secretariat.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the difference between historical and forward-projection baselines and suggested text saying that caps apply only to forward-projection baselines.
MOZAMBIQUE, with BELGUIM, called for "more action and less talk."
GRENADA mentioned regional information.
On areas needing more work, the UMBRELLA GROUP discussed a possible role for the Convention to facilitate and catalyze activities, through, inter alia, sharing of best practices and information.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that all developing countries face the negative consequences of response measures, including those affecting trade.
He noted that emerging markets offer significant opportunities for renewable energy projects, citing the case of China, which is reportedly planning to spend US$120 billion to double energy capacity by 2010.
Trade Union NGOs (TUNGOs) underscored the importance of realizing the US$100 billion finance commitment as soon as possible.
JAPAN said \t\tprojects for district heating, energy efficiency and transport should be \t\tencouraged.
The US retained the option of no appeal procedure.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted CCS and the impact of response measures on oil-exporting developing countries.
BARBADOS questioned the value of forming a contact group, while SAUDI ARABIA, BOTSWANA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, JAPAN, INDONESIA and KUWAIT supported forming a group at this meeting.
He also said AOSIS is committed to improving the environmental integrity of the CDM and JI.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported discussions on agriculture and adaptation, and welcomed the enhancement of environmental integrity and transparency on REDD+ and market- and non-market approaches.
The EU and JAPAN stated that further discussion on technical aspects should only occur after the completion of the IPCC 92s work on good practice.
NORWAY and JAPAN expressed readiness to work on the basis of the revised draft decision.
AOSIS highlighted urgency and impacts on LDCs and SIDS as the benchmark.
JAPAN and CANADA said both technical workshops and intersessional meetings should be held prior to COP-6.
KENYA supported retention of paragraph 2 using IPCC language.
Angola, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to elaborate, in the new text, a temperature goal consistent with science, welcoming reports on convergence on the 1.5 c2 b0C target.
The US highlighted their proposal for a global fund for climate.
On reporting of supplementary information under Article 7, the EU proposed text for a section on "domestic programmes," which requires reporting on domestic policies and measures as well as on the domestic system for monitoring legal entities 92 participation in international emissions trading.
WG I Co-Chair Stocker, supported by the Netherlands, the US and others, stressed focusing on what makes sense in terms of science.
The EU presented their proposals on sectoral crediting and sectoral trading.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL urged keeping this as a separate decision, noting that it included additional proposals.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested distinguishing between institutions under the Convention and those created by decisions.
CHINA highlighted that multi-stakeholder dialogues conducted in the context of the Talanoa process had attracted attention at all governance levels, said climate action and economic development can be complementary, and urged developed countries to honor their financial commitments.
JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BRAZIL and SWITZERLAND opposed this division.
SAUDI ARABIA, with CHINA and others, reiterated that “the form should follow function.” He also stressed that the “function” cannot be clarified before a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol has been agreed.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a global goal on adaptation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for, inter alia: further clarity on the AWG-LCA outcome, maintaining a rules-based system; and enhancing the environmental integrity of the regime in areas such as land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) and the flexible mechanisms.
The G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Nauru, for AOSIS, the EU, NORWAY, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL and TURKEY called for building on existing institutions and mechanisms, such as the Cancun Adaptation Framework.
ICELAND stressed that only projects with demonstrable global benefit would fall under the draft decision, if they could not be accommodated within the Party\'s assigned amount.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for early establishment of a NAMA registry and the adoption of guidelines for NAMAs, both those seeking and those not seeking international support.
Norway, supported by the US, the UK, China, Ireland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and Canada, urged delegates to respect the authors’ judgment on the levels of scientific understanding of these energy types, but Saudi Arabia noted that respect for the authors had not prevented delegates from making changes to the authors’ expressed opinions in other sections of the Refinement.
MALI, for the G-77/China, noted the need for guidance to the GEF regarding sustaining infrastructure.
  On its proposal to amend Convention Article 4 (Commitments), the RUSSIAN FEDERATION explained the need for periodic review of the countries listed in Annexes I and II.
Maldives, for AOSIS, asked that the Co-Chairs not reissue a new text on the transparency framework given ongoing negotiations.
The EU noted that the text was “well developed” and that political choices must now be made.
In the afternoon, reporting back from the spin-off group on commitments/obligations/actions held in the afternoon, SWEDEN highlighted discussions on: the wide-ranging scope of commitments; the need for new commitments/obligations/actions in the agreement; enhancement of provision of resources, their predictability and scalability; and the importance of enabling environments and associated concerns around national sovereignty.
The EU said options to deal with cash surpluses and carry-over of resources from previous biennium periods required further consideration.
The EU called for a common, enhanced and flexible transparency framework that builds on the current MRV system.
On the scope of MRV, Argentina, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against bias towards mitigation.
The US preferred that SBSTA "hold" such a workshop.
The EU, the US and others stressed the need to work efficiently and take into account existing agenda items and work streams on response measures.
NEW ZEALAND proposed having the paragraphs in this section as a menu of options from which ministers could choose one or more paragraphs.
INDIA cited the decision of COP-1 that the Berlin Mandate be confined to reviewing the commitments of Annex I countries on strengthening developed countries’ commitments to GHG reductions and operationalization of resources transfer.
IRELAND, for the EU, stressed the importance of decoupling economic growth and emissions, and said renewables are a priority.
The US pointed out that projects differ in terms of how prone they are to leakage, and, with Canada and Japan, stressed that the scale of actual LULUCF projects implemented would be limited.
BOLIVIA expressed concern over “delay tactics” and the bottom-up approach to defining emission reductions, stressing the need for developed countries to reduce their emissions domestically by 50% by 2017.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the EIG, cautioned parties “not to change the focus and character” of the contact group, called for focusing energies on discussions in the spin-off groups and said topics for discussion in the spin-off group should complement “the agreed outcome” under the AWG-LCA.
The US, supported by Canada and New Zealand, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed that the Secretariat produce an information paper on links between the TAR and other agenda items.
The EU suggested focusing on areas of convergence, and PAKISTAN and INDIA said convergence may be found by focusing on proposals in line with the Convention and the BAP.
VENEZUELA, with the PHILIPPINES, called for a focus on environmental integrity at the workshop and, with INDONESIA, for a top-down rather than a bottom-up approach to aggregate emissions.
COLOMBIA highlighted concerns over scaling up problems associated with the CDM, such as geographical distribution.
 The PHILIPPINES urged a hastening of work on technology assessment and transfer.
CANADA underscored the importance of emphasizing the national context of sustainable development, while TUVALU stressed a broader approach.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called on developed countries to scale up support for the implementation of adaptation measures and plans through the Cancun Adaptation Framework, the NWP, and the development of a mechanism for loss and damage.
ARGENTINA said that Annex I countries have yet to take the lead on climate change.
BANGLADESH described the US proposal as a “better packaging” of the proposal by Mexico for a green fund.
MICRONESIA underscored the need for expedited access, and SOUTH AFRICA said the level of funding to ensure the sustainability of the SCCF needs to be addressed.
The PHILLIPPINES welcomed the work undertaken by the EGTT, and expressed hope that the work done by the EGTT will not undermine the negotiations on the implementation of the Bali Action Plan.
 \t\tSWITZERLAND, with AUSTRIA and NORWAY, highlighted the importance of \t\treviewing how satellite and other remote sensing measurements can \t\tcontribute to national inventories.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN and VENEZUELA, he requested an additional item on methodological issues related to Articles 4.8 and 4.9 (minimizing adverse impacts of response measures).
The PHILIPPINES called on developed countries to take “longer-term actions” by transitioning from unsustainable to sustainable production and consumption patterns and implementing energy-efficient infrastructures.
Mexico, supported by the US and Australia, and opposed by South Africa, China and the United Arab Emirates, proposed changing reference to e2 80 9cdeveloped country parties e2 80 9d to e2 80 9call parties, e2 80 9d noting that both developed and developing countries need to address barriers to technology transfer.
 SAUDI ARABIA said delegates should consider all GHGs, not only CO2.
On the type of further commitments, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported continuing the current approach but urged defining national targets based on objective criteria rather than political negotiation.
NEW ZEALAND explained his country’s pledge to reduce emissions by 10-20% below 1990 levels provided that: the global agreement limits temperature rise to 2°C; developed countries make comparable efforts; advanced and major-emitting developing countries take action commensurate with their capabilities; there is an effective set of rules for LULUCF; and there is recourse to international carbon market.
The EU specified that such criteria can be useful for the negotiations but not necessary to include in the text.
The US said that SBSTA\'s draft conclusions and the formation of the TAPs had budgetary implications and requested information on these prior to taking decisions.
INDIA stressed that the Protocol, as one of the “most important” treaties, must be strengthened for the second commitment period.
During the resumed first working group session of the multilateral assessment under the IAR process, responding to Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and BRAZIL on whether substantive conclusions of the multilateral assessment will be considered by the SBI, SBI Chair Yauvoli said the conclusions will be procedural.
SINGAPORE said equity could not be distilled in indicators.
SAUDI ARABIA supported deletion of text noting that the creation of a limited number of consultative fora comprised of observers should be a way to enhance engagement.
NEW ZEALAND and CANADA indicated that \t\t\tthe EU’s experiences in forming the “bubble” and defining the new \t\t\tvoluntary target could be useful.
On levies, the G-77/CHINA highlighted establishing an adaptation fund.
The AOSIS protocol takes a universal view rather than narrowly confining its approach to the views of those living on large continental shelves.
Sweden, for the EU, said a Copenhagen deal must deliver concrete results and include all the essential components of the Kyoto Protocol.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted fast-track financial support through the REDD+ interim partnership and, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, Australia, Ecuador and others, identified the need for public and private funding.
The EU reiterated that response measures should be addressed in the relevant contact group.
The EU added that the review of adequacy of commitments should be given to an ad hoc committee.
The PHILIPPINES sought clarification on how the information sessions on the work of the Transitional Committee and fast-start finance, and the workshops scheduled for this session would feed into the work of the AWG-LCA.
The G-77 and the US insisted that there should be a link between paragraphs 2(d) and 2(e).
 SWITZERLAND said fluorocarbons and HFCs should be included as a sector, as a possible growing source of emissions that are persistent in atmosphere compared to other gases.
The US and JAPAN lamented that the G-77/China had not reached convergence on workstream 1 (2015 agreement).
Following discussions, the EU suggested replacing the sentence with a general reference to decision 13/CP.7.
CHINA urged parties to close the pre-2020 mitigation gap in terms of increasing developed countries’ commitments on emission reductions, as well as increasing the provision of finance and technology for developing-country parties.
 NIGERIA said stabilizing emissions at 1990 levels will be costly for the world economy and will not lead to significant abatement compared with business as usual scenarios.
JAPAN, supported by the EU, suggested further enhancing web-based information exchange.
CHINA outlined various domestic mitigation efforts and said any attempt to merge the dual negotiating tracks agreed in Bali would be detrimental and lead to a “fruitless” Copenhagen conference.
King Norodom Sihamoni, Cambodia, called for: maintaining the impetus provided by the initial capitalization of the GCF; funding for LDCs; and stimulating private investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The PHILIPPINES called for a better understanding of climate impacts and new technological platforms.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted that some unresolved elements in Annex B amendment proposals, such as the use of “European Union” versus “European Community” are resolved by proposals in option B. SWITZERLAND called for the engagement of the AWG-KP Chair on this issue.
The US emphasized that guidelines and templates to support the design of national strategies and action plans on Convention Article 6 should be developed “according to national circumstance and context” and proposed deleting text on “identifying links with capacity-building and technology transfer,” which was supported by the G-77/CHINA and the EU.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the unique vulnerability \t\tof least developed countries (LDCs), the African region, and small \t\tisland developing states (SIDS).
The EU, CANADA and THAILAND also stressed the role of the private sector in technology transfer.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, stated that the SBSTA should focus on technology development and assessment adding that the COP would focus on transfer of technology, including terms and conditions of transfer.
SAUDI ARABIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed that their statements on the Ministerial Declaration be annexed to the report in their entirety.
He urged the AGBM to ask SBSTA to review and report on ongoing work done by IPCC, OECD and IEA.
The EU supported institutional arrangements under the Convention and suggested a new coordinating body.
On demonstrable progress, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraph recognizing the first national communication submitted under Article 7.2, stressing that the approach was too narrow.
Switzerland, for \t\tthe ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, tabled an alternate proposal which \t\tlinks principles and modalities.
He presented a framework for analyzing individual policies and their impacts, and applied it to an EU voluntary agreement on CO2 reductions in the transport sector.
The LDCs, with SOUTH AFRICA, stressed that positive signals from developed countries on addressing development and transfer of technology were required, and that smaller groups would not necessarily solve this issue.
The G-77/CHINA argued that the host developing country should be the sole judge in deciding on the project.
Canada, with the EU and US, opposed text inviting the SBI to provide guidance to the financial mechanism in relation to decision 5/CP.5 (R&amp;SO) and 5/ CP.7 (adverse effects).
AOSIS accepted the Declaration as a statement of determination to give force and direction to the Berlin Mandate.
SAINT LUCIA, with TUVALU, said the political context is very important and that such technical discussion was premature.
The US noted possible divergence on this issue.
The US supported differentiation, noting that those developing countries with greater capacity, capability and responsibility would need to exhibit greater ambition.
Emphasizing that Durban should result in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), called for improving the effectiveness of the Kyoto Protocol by closing loopholes and ensuring its continuity by adopting an amendment in Durban to be provisionally applied pending its entry into force.
On the modalities of operation, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA, questioned whether Parties could transfer PAAs that remained unused because of factors other than P&amp;Ms, such as economic recession.
JAPAN noted its intention to make a financial contribution to the workshop to be held prior to COP-4.
UGANDA underscored the absence of climate information on Africa and sought support for meteorological and hydrological services.
TUVALU said the section on sectoral approaches could be simplified and should not be too prescriptive or highlight specific sectors, with the exception of bunker fuels.
BRAZIL underlined the need to discuss the ways and means of finance after results have been fully monitored, reported and verified.
The US stated that this solution should not set a precedent.
The draft conclusions on the status of the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.9 (LDCs) were agreed with brackets remaining around the reference to the three other decisions on LDCs, at the request of the US.
AFGHANISTAN supported the extension of the LEG’s mandate to, inter alia: support mainstreaming adaptation in LDCs and aligning NAPAs with government economic planning and budgetary process.
The US said that text on Chapter 2a and 2b (nationally appropriate mitigation commitments or actions by developed and developing countries) needs to reflect parties’ views.
CHILE, supported by several others, proposed extending the \t\tMarrakesh Accords deadline for registering prompt start CDM projects.
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.1.InformalNote), ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) identify the objective of the Geneva session as delivering the negotiating text since there are no other negotiating sessions planned before May 2015.
The European Union (EU) said Durban should address the gap in the level of ambition, a common international accounting system, and a process to deliver a new global comprehensive legally-binding framework to be completed by 2015.
On recommendations for the SBSTA, SOUTH AFRICA called for local vulnerability assessments, support for insurance systems and development of contingency plans.
In many areas of the rulebook, including transparency, the guidelines also give the most vulnerable countries, namely LDCs and SIDS, added flexibility in terms of how and when they apply the guidance.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, hoped the conclusion that future climate change will be dominated by human influence until GHG concentrations stabilize will provide impetus to action.
Considering this, MALAYSIA questioned how some Annex I countries can propose developing country emission reduction commitments.
SOUTH AFRICA said LULUCF accounting rules should be defined in a manner resulting in net emission reductions.
JAPAN supported multi-project baselines, noting the missed CDM opportunities due to the complexity of setting baselines.
The US proposed, with support from Switzerland, that the pre-scoping questionnaire be approved by the relevant WG Bureaus.
For WGIII, Jim Skea (UK) was elected by acclamation as developed country Co-Chair.
The EU proposed first deepening understanding of the magnitude of effects, both positive and negative, before deciding on next steps.
On the documentation of wide \t\t\tranging impacts of climate changes 93for the first time, 94 the US, \t\t\tChina and Saudi Arabia questioned the basis of this statement.
Maldives, for AOSIS, Peru, for AILAC, INDONESIA, and INDIA said new submissions were not necessary at this point.
He noted, with Bangladesh, for the LDCs, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BRAZIL, that action should be based on principles including, inter alia, common but differentiated responsibilities and “country-drivenness.”
CANADA supported the modified Option C, as did HONDURAS, who supported Iceland on including soil productivity.
The US, Australia, Canada and others supported international MRV of NAMAs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for an effective global climate change framework and highlighted a package of elements that would enable progress and ensure environmental integrity, including: international consultation and analysis (ICA); international consultation and review (IAR); and MRV.
BRAZIL said the starting point “is irrelevant” and that the real issue is the current level of pledges.
Cyprus, for the EU, on climate finance, said the EU will continue to provide support after 2012 and will work to scale up finance towards 2020.
Noting potential use of quantitative or qualitative methodologies, BRAZIL preferred e2 80 9cdeveloping countries may also clarify the extent to which enhanced efforts are dependent upon the provision of support.
Egypt, for the African Group, said long-term climate finance should not be confined to US$100 billion annually and called for discussing a strategic approach to finance, including addressing sources, predictability, adequacy and stability, and ways to deliver the necessary scale of finance needed to stay below 2 c2 b0C.
The EU underscored synergies in the Fund 92s \t\tmanagement, procedures and accountability.
Highlighting the vulnerability of her region, Colombia, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), stressed that effective implementation of the Paris Agreement requires consideration of countries’ special circumstances.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that building a new regime takes time, identifying Durban as the next step in the process that can move forward the Cancun undertakings.
PAKISTAN emphasized that: the ambition gap is not restricted to mitigation, but also encompasses means of implementation and legal aspects.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 invites LDC parties and others, to forward outputs, including NAP documents, and outcomes related to the process to formulate and implement NAPs, to the NAP Central (an online tool, still under development, with interactive guidelines, case studies and related information to support the NAP process);
BOLIVIA stressed that the new text is imbalanced, stated that texts originating from facilitators and the Chair have no official status and urged returning to the "parties’ text" containing all options.
SAUDI ARABIA recommended that the SBSTA seek guidance in preparing its report in order to ensure objectivity, transparency and to reflect divergent views.
The US cautioned against further changes to the document, \t\tstating that the 2006 Guidelines were designed as a comprehensive \t\tpackage and underscoring the danger of deleting sections or relegating \t\tthem to appendices.
On introducing multiplication and discount factors under the CDM, the EU and CANADA expressed an interest in discount factors.
Calling finance and technology the two fundamental pillars of the Paris Agreement, Guatemala, for AILAC, highlighted progress in these areas.
CANADA highlighted the capacity of soils to sequester carbon and noted the opportunity this presented to farmers in pursuing sustainable land management practices.
Responding to CHINA on the remaining effort to achieve Finland e2 80 99s renewable energy target of 38% by 2020, he explained that, in 2012, the share of renewables was 35%.
BOLIVIA supported introducing a e2 80 9ccompound index of country participation, e2 80 9d based on historical responsibilities, ecological footprint, capabilities and state of development.
The UK said no SYR by COP-13 would represent a ef bf bdretrograde step ef bf bd and make the IPCC ef bf bdirrelevant ef bf bd in the views of some.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the need to address equity, nature and scope, supplementarity and cross-cutting issues.
SPAIN urged the establishment of institutional frameworks to facilitate investment by the private sector in projects that promote sustainable development.
Nauru, for AOSIS, lamented that the adopted package is deficient in terms of mitigation ambition and finance, stating that it “only promises that something might materialize in the future.” He further expressed his expectation that the 2014 climate change leaders’ summit announced by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will work to close the ambition gap.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the nomination of a Bureau member from Samoa to represent SIDS.
The MALDIVES and MAURITIUS highlighted the vulnerability of SIDS, and called for technology transfer to address adaptation needs.
He underscored that developed countries have yet to meet their Convention or Protocol obligations regarding mitigation and MOI, which the EU and AUSTRALIA disputed in their cases.
 In its decision (FCCC/SBI/2018/9/Add.1), the COP decidesto update the elements of the LDC work programme as listed below in order to reflect the needs of LDCs, taking full account of the numerous groups and bodies that are involved in assisting countries with these activities, noting the importance of avoiding duplication of work, and taking into account available resources:
The US, \t\tREPUBLIC OF KOREA, AUSTRALIA and NORWAY supported the themes proposed \t\tfor the COP-10 high-level segment (HLS), with minor changes.
IRAN said that in light of the FCCC 92s comprehensive approach, the CDM should cover all six gases, and all sources and sinks.
SOUTH AFRICA explained that doing so could endanger the objectivity of the ERTs.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said that they came to Doha for a balanced package and lamented that a number of elements have not been addressed.
JAPAN sought to add some positive spillover effects.
BARBADOS emphasized that there is no process outside the AWG-LCA to consider the post-2012 financing gap and that the Green Climate Fund remains “an empty shell.”
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and SAMOA said the issue of confidentiality of information might conflict with the principle of transparency and needed further thought.
The US questioned this deletion and said that no compromise had been demonstrated in G-77 text.
The US opposed any discussion of changes to the IPR regime and any text that sought to undermine or weaken that regime.
AUSTRALIA said that it was not easy to agree to set up drafting groups without adequate Plenary discussions.
GUINEA stressed referencing “other vulnerable countries and regions.”
On operationalization, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred using the Compliance Committee to address implementation of Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects and impacts of responses) and to facilitate compliance under Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
CHINA also said it is premature to have a budget item for an MCP while consultations are ongoing.
CANADA called for consultations on this issue under the guidance of the Chair.
NEW ZEALAND supported the Secretariat 92s proposal to integrate the different rosters.
The G-77/CHINA pointed to clear divergence between developing and developed parties on certain issues and emphasized that financing outside the framework of the financial mechanism would be unacceptable.
CHINA indicated the crossover with non-permanence.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, stressed that the guidelines can be adjusted later through a COP or COP/MOP decision and there is no need to add language in this regard.
 BRAZIL highlighted difficulties with the Brazilian submission to the GEF on preparing a national inventory.
During the contact group discussions, parties agreed to extend the LEG’s mandate for five years, as well as to include an additional LDC member in the LEG.
The EU emphasized that they support strengthening commitments, accounting, reporting and compliance and reiterated that, while committed to the Kyoto Protocol, this is most efficiently accomplished through integration of the Protocol into a single legal arrangement.
VENEZUELA cautioned against attempts to shift commitments under Article 3.14 away from Annex I Parties.
SOUTH AFRICA underlined that adoption of conclusions requires consensus and said that, in light of the African Group’s reservations, there was no consensus.
The EU questioned whether the paragraph would give improper political advice to the IPCC.
The SBI also notes that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among regional groups, the President of COP 19 and CMP 9 would come from Eastern Europe and the President of COP 20 and CMP 10 would come from GRULAC.
The G-77/CHINA called for a platform for a direct exchange of views on the impact of developed countries’ response measures on developing countries.
France, for the EU, highlighted the potential for using a levy on aviation revenue to combat climate change and, with AUSTRALIA, for the use of carbon markets to achieve cost-effective mitigation.
The US opposed developing a list of specific programme elements.
URUGUAY disagreed with China, and suggested a reference to the detection of climate change and trends therein due to non-anthropogenic causes as well as a reference to oceanographic information.
The Chair asked Dan Reifsnyder (US) and John Ashe (Antigua and Barbuda) to chair a contact group to prepare a draft decision.
Maldives, for LDCs, said the science and economics of \t\t\tclimate change are now clear, leaving only the need for political \t\t\twill.
The EU and NORWAY said the text would help to highlight areas of disagreement.
CANADA suggested a discussion of: actions that must be taken at the national and international levels; regional approaches; and enabling tools, such as action plans, needs assessments and roadmaps.
TUVALU emphasized that the high-level segment should be transparent.
GERMANY responded by calling for "absolute" emissions reductions, noting that a failure to address climate change will result in economic harm.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the urgency of adaptation actions, financing and additionality.
The G-77/China and AOSIS called for \t\testablishing an experts 92 working group to advance work and ensure \t\tfollow-up.
Saudi Arabia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (LMDCs), with JORDAN, called for reflecting CBDR and equity.
On a paragraph on the ADP producing the text of the 2015 agreement, and elaborating any related decisions, for adoption by COP 21 and identifying the need for additional decisions at subsequent COP sessions, the EU welcomed the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text.
On Climate Technology Initiative (CTI) experiences in supporting parties with conducting TNAs, Elmer Holt, Department of Energy, US, highlighted that CTI adds value to the TNA process by facilitating interaction between government agencies and business.
The NETHERLANDS said the documents are already made for policy makers, so there is no need for further simplification of IPCC documents by the SBSTA.
NORWAY noted that the draft COP/MOP 1 decision should state \t\tthat guidance to GEF should be revisited annually.
On timing, the US suggested setting strict deadlines for submission of reports, while leaving broader issues flexible.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized that fully harmonizing rule-based approaches may imply a trade-off with participation, because some parties may move away from cooperation.
On the section on reporting of supplementary information on mechanisms under Article 7.2 (national communications), the G-77/CHINA suggested an alternative paragraph specifying that the Party report a list and brief descriptions of projects under Articles 6 and 12, for which credits are held in registries during the reporting period.
  In Tuesday morning’s informal plenary session, AWGLCA Chair Machado proposed focusing on a “shared vision.” BRAZIL, the PHILIPPINES, CUBA, INDIA and others emphasized the importance of the Convention’s principles and commitments in defining a shared vision.
Frank Niepold provided a US perspective on challenges, good practices and lessons learned from national implementation of the CCE, emphasizing an audience-focused, community-based approach through partnerships between science and educational organizations.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS pointed out that a majority of delegations supported the stronger interpretation of the SAR.
TUVALU stressed the need to reflect the Bonn Agreements, and not "pick and choose" what to retain in the guidelines.
INDIA emphasized that determination of contributions should be country-driven.
On adaptation challenges, CANADA highlighted: adopting an integrated and iterative approach; building capacity for adaptation and assessment; and, with the EU, improving information gathering and dissemination.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the Seychelles, for AOSIS, supported Kazakhstan’s proposal.
The EU said it had made considerable concessions in Bonn by simplifying proposals on which policies and measures should be mandatory.
On time management, Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that the additional session would cover PAWP items under all three bodies.
He identified the EU ETS as being among the key mitigation tools.
On supplementarity, the EU, G-77/China and Hungary emphasized domestic action as the primary means to fulfill commitments.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND suggested that national circumstances, such as geographical remoteness, required consideration.
BOLIVIA expressed concern over various informal notes produced by facilitators that do not consider submissions from some parties and the lack of progress on increasing the level of mitigation ambition.
Many parties supported the proposal by Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, to structure the mitigation section around: long-term global goal on mitigation; individual commitments; characteristics; arrangements/mechanisms; and mandate/authority for the governing body.
The PHILLIPINES, the EU and BOLIVIA highlighted, inter alia: accessibility and scaling up of financial assistance for NAPs.
BOLIVIA, URUGUAY and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, supported this.
NORWAY invited parties to learn from the difficulty of quantifying Cancun mitigation pledges in terms of basic metrics and assumptions, and fairness.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to reflect in the report that the “vast majority” of parties support the establishment of a forum on response measures.
The EU requested information on whether carrying over Assigned Amount Units (AAUs) from the first to the second commitment period was included as an assumption in the emission reduction range in the IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Report of 25-40% from 1990 levels, in order to further clarify the relation between level of ambition and what is required by science.
Draft text \t\tunder the Protocol received a generally positive response, although the \t\tG-77/China asked that regional imbalances of CDM projects be further \t\thighlighted and the Cook Islands asked for reference to the special \t\tneeds of LDCs and SIDS in the preamble.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, urged an expedited procedure for the approval of LDC national adaptation programmes of action.
Supported by BOLIVIA, he opposed the Republic of Korea’s proposal to designate the Green Climate Fund (GCF) as the “main” operating entity of the agreement, noting that it would re-open the GCF’s governing instrument.
SOUTH AFRICA underscored the challenge of projecting future actions when the scope of funding for capacity building and technology transfer is unclear.
CANADA and SAMOA highlighted the need to act through the national communications process.
GHANA, with SINGAPORE, recommended looking at response measures in the context of NDCs to minimize adverse effects.
On participation, the EU referred to its two-track approach, which relates to the transfer of emission reduction units, in terms of which Parties complying with a set of identified preconditions may follow a more simplified procedure for transfer.
CHINA stated that sectoral approaches cannot replace targets but can be used as a means of achieving them.
CHINA said the evolution proposal is: outside the scope of the Berlin Mandate process, which prevails until its outcome is adopted at COP-3; a political move to let some countries evade their responsibilities; intended to destroy the FCCC’s principle of common but differentiated responsibilities; and intended to lead to the failure of COP- 3.
The SBI adopted the conclusions with an oral amendment from China, subsequently tweaked by the US, to the paragraph urging parties and others to contribute to the LDCF, replacing “parties and others to contribute” with “additional contributions” and “and/or the GCF” with “and the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism.”
The EU and Colombia, for AILAC, said the suggestion was useful but should be analyzed later.
VENEZUELA called for preserving the rules-based system under the Kyoto Protocol and building on those rules through the Bali Action Plan and the AWG-LCA track.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted national circumstances and detailed costs for mitigation.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA called for focusing on the NAMA registry.
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that operationalizing the GCF cannot be delayed in spite of its shortcomings, which include lack of a dedicated SIDS and LDC funding window, and the lack of provision for a replenishment process.
The NETHERLANDS said it will continue to implement its Protocol obligations in the absence of the Russian Federation 92s ratification.
The US suggested elements for reporting, including a section on achievement of a party’s NDC in target years.
ICELAND said differentiated commitments can imply a more complicated agreement, but reduction targets are possible in a more cost-effective manner if different national circumstances are recognized.
Delegates adopted the Chair 92s draft conclusions on: coastal adaptation technologies (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.21); other matters relating to the Secretariat 92s cooperation activities with the OECD 92s Development Assistance Committee to provide comprehensive data (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.18); and ways and means of limiting emissions of hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/CRP.7).
NEW ZEALAND, with SWITZERLAND, called for concluding consideration of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper, noting it covers most of the elements of the CRP.
SAUDI ARABIA said he could not support the elections as proposed.
BRAZIL and ICELAND indicated that the issue of sinks needed to be sorted out before settling targets for QELROs.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for: transforming current pledges on the table into QELROs to enable progress in discussions; enhancing ambition by closing loopholes; provisional application of any agreement on a second commitment period to resolve the issue of the gap; and discussion of consequential amendments.
BRAZIL, supported by CHILE, SINGAPORE, CANADA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and SOUTH AFRICA, said access rights to the Registry should be reserved for the national UNFCCC focal points.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized the role of market mechanisms, private sector initiatives and a predictable investment environment.
On review of INDCs, South Africa, Colombia, Nauru, for AOSIS, and Tonga highlighted the importance of an assessment process.
The entire text was bracketed, following a proposal by Tuvalu, for the LDCs.
Stressing science-based emission reduction needs, the EU said developed countries must take the lead but cannot do it alone, underscoring that developing countries as a group must have a “level of ambition” to cut their emissions by 15-30% from the business-as-usual baseline by 2020.
BRAZIL welcomed market mechanisms as long as assessed contributions are the main source of financing.
ARGENTINA announced its adoption of a voluntary target to reduce its GHG emissions and stated that it does not intend to abandon its status as a non-Annex I Party.
After \t\tfurther discussion and informal consultations led by the US, delegates \t\tagreed to note that assessments of the implications of leakage for \t\tclimate change mitigation depend on the framework chosen for decision \t\tmaking, and on the information on the fractions retained for geological \t\tor ocean storage, as presented elsewhere in the SPM.
BRAZIL suggested that, for developing countries, the most evident way of fulfilling the ADP e2 80 99s mandate to enhance action is by addressing scale.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the AWG-KP’s mandate and supported focusing on this so-called Chair’s “document 3.” CANADA, TUVALU and several Annex I parties supported also discussing the Chair’s other note, “document 4” (FCCC/KP/AWG/2009/4), which covers issues listed in paragraph 49 of the AWG-KP 6 conclusions.
 THAILAND said the IPCC report stresses the need to immediately reduce emissions.
 CANADA stated that panels should be composed of government-appointed experts.
SAMOA said all Parties could benefit from information sharing, even if actions to share information are only taken by Annex I Parties.
AUSTRALIA cautioned against creating stand-alone capacity-building institutions.
Nauru, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), emphasized the need for an agreement that ultimately brings CO2 concentrations to a level consistent with 1.5°C.
 The PHILIPPINES, supported by ETHIOPIA, said that since developing countries numbered over 130, additional space should be provided for developing country experts.
Co-Chair Uosukainen said he would consult on a proposal by the EU to include Protocol Article 10 (existing commitments) in the preamble of the draft decision.
Actions to minimize the impacts of climate change: The US and UK said implementing the Protocol is the most important step.
PANAMA noted that his country 92s biodiversity is being effected by climate change, while BHUTAN underscored the vulnerability of its fragile mountain ecosystem.
KENYA suggested that a review might include \t\tconsideration of active work with the scientific community in areas of \t\tcomparative advantage and capacity building in developing countries.
BOLIVA stressed that developed country commitments based on their GDP offer the necessary predictability of funding.
Regarding the need for a channel for communicating impacts and consequences of policies and measures in paragraph 14, New Zealand, supported by the EU and opposed by the G-77/China, identified national communications as the appropriate channel for such reporting.
MEXICO clarified e2 80 9cresults-based e2 80 9d is not a precondition for access to finance, and stressed prioritizing both mitigation and adaptation finance.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 invites the GEF to continue to support the remaining activities contained in the LDC work programme;
AUSTRALIA said it would be premature to establish a particular point at which levels of GHGs become dangerous.
Belize, for CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), stressed the need for: acting decisively on adaptation and treating mitigation and adaptation equally; addressing loss and damage separately from adaptation; operationalizing the Warsaw Framework for REDD+; and providing clarity on the delivery by developed countries of US$100 billion per year by 2020.
TUVALU highlighted his country’s proposed legal instrument for immunities, which prescribes institutions to which privileges and immunities should apply.
NORWAY and CANADA sought to establish a process to enable COP-5 to consider sinks.
BOLIVIA, ARGENTINA, CUBA, JORDAN, INDIA and KUWAIT opposed including issues that are not in the Convention, such as net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient economies.
During discussions, the US, Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, Norway, Belgium and others expressed concern about this situation and called for targeted outreach undertaken at high levels, including by the heads of WMO and UNEP, with IPCC Chair Lee leading the effort.
A sentence on mitigation policy possibly devaluing fossil fuel assets and reducing revenues was approved, but the UK, Sweden and Slovenia called for the deletion of a subsequent sentence on mitigation scenarios being associated with reduced revenues from coal and oil trade, noting it was repetitive.
Opposed by \t\tthe EU, the US called for text clarifying that participation includes a \t\tphysical presence, and suggested reviewing the issue at SBI-22.
MONACO supported better identification of developing countries e2 80 99 needs, as well as evaluation and verification of developing countries e2 80 99 use of funds.
CHINA stressed that the text should include language on unilateral trade measures.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, drew attention to gaps, noting the need to highlight the life cycle of funding, including inception, planning, implementation and review.
The US presented on ensuring observer participation as the Convention evolves.
 KUWAIT said Item 3 of the provisional agenda should cover analysis and assessment and a study of the impact on economic and social systems of non-Annex I Parties.
SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and the UAE argued this would go beyond streamlining.
The US said the principles should not constitute an artificial divide between developed and developing countries.
Ministers noted the intention of the EU to “stop the clock” on the implementation of the international aspects of the EU emissions trading system legislation by one year.
Uganda, the Gambia, Nepal, Burkina Faso, the US and others stressed clear articulation of the needs and concerns of least developed countries (LDCs) in the text and decisions.
BURKINA FASO, THAILAND and AZERBAIJAN called for translations of guidelines.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted their national stakeholder consultations on nationally appropriate mitigation.
NORWAY and BURKINA FASO supported holding the high-level ministerial segment at the end of each session, while the US, BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA supported holding it at the beginning of the sessions.
CHILE underscored the role played by market conditions in ensuring cleaner technology, particularly in transportation.
INDIA opposed any hierarchy or prioritization of work with regard to the three collaborative mechanisms.
The UK, supported by Belgium, called for a country-driven process with inputs from the Bureau and TSUs as advisors but not as members.
With the Russian Federation, she called for flexibility for countries with EIT.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, JAPAN, the US and MEXICO proposed categories of convergence to structure the discussion on the technology section of the agreement.
BRAZIL said the G-77/CHINA would be developing a negotiating position on this issue in the light of the new IPCC Special Report.
Monaco, Norway, Ireland, Spain, the US, New Zealand, Germany, Canada and Switzerland requested an agenda item on proposals for SRs to begin initial discussions of the issue.
The US identified the lack of crediting and capacity in the host countries and high transaction costs for small projects as barriers in the pilot phase.
 \t\tTuvalu, speaking for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), called \t\tfor future commitments under Article 3.9, and said efforts to streamline \t\tCDM should not compromise its environmental integrity.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, called for consideration of action-driven outcomes under the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation (NWP) and a decision to build and/or enhance national and regional climate centers.
In October 1997, as AGBM- 8 began, US President Bill Clinton called for "meaningful participation" by developing countries in the negotiating position he announced in Washington.
The EU said there is no “one-size-fits-all” solution and that capacity building should be based on national institutions and processes.
On sources of finance, Norway, Switzerland, Canada and the US suggested highlighting a variety of sources.
VIET NAM and MEXICO called for including gender equality.
SAMOA stressed the need to preserve the non-confrontational aspect of the compliance process.
The Chair directed that paragraph 1(a) of Appendix II be written as a separate decision and that the US and Philippines consult on 1(e).
 URUGUAY said parties should recognize that emissions from agriculture might not decrease because the sector has to meet the demands of a growing population.
YEMEN expressed concern at the reluctance of Annex I Parties to take necessary actions to address climate change.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, urged Annex I parties to close the gap between the current emission reduction pledges and what is required by science.
CHILE highlighted reporting on financial and technical support received, in addition to the implementation of NAMAs.
JAPAN questioned the utility of including the precautionary principle since it is a general principle that does not direct concrete action in non-compliance cases.
 Noting the complexity of methodologies, CANADA proposed that regional workshops on integrated assessment include consideration of impacts and adaptation.
AOSIS indicated that a \t\tfollow-up process for the \t\tDialogue would involve forming a new body, and \t\tconsideration of its mandate, operation and timeframe for completing the \t\twork.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at the lack of progress under the AWG-KP, emphasizing that political will is key for establishing a second commitment period.
The G-77/CHINA proposed that work take place within the framework of Protocol Article 2.2, which stipulates that Annex I Parties shall limit emissions from aviation and marine bunker fuels, working through the ICAO and IMO.
The EU read a proposal for a new paragraph on capturing carbon from flue gases and Co-Chair Paciornik deferred it for consideration at a later meeting.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, said that the IPCC TAR should inform discussions on the development of the climate regime.
Co-Chair Metz said an \t\tinformal discussion would be welcome if time allowed it and, with KENYA, \t\tnoted the importance of concentrating on approval of the SPM.
 The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for systematic improvement of AIJ to improve research and development capacity.
SOUTH AFRICA called for a programme of work for further deliberations at COP 22.
NEPAL highlighted the fragility of mountain ecosystems.
PERU, for a number of Latin American countries, outlined three key outcomes for Cancun, including a decision on legal form confirming the legally-binding nature of an AWG-LCA outcome, substantive decisions on “mature issues,” and decisions on a programme of work for addressing unresolved issues.
The PHILIPPINES cautioned against reclassifying projects without prior climate change vulnerability assessment and agreed processes.
Participants agreed to a suggestion from the US that a \t\t\tstatement that ice caps do not include the Antarctic and Greenland \t\t\tice sheets be moved from a footnote to a parenthetical comment \t\t\twithin the main text.
Highlighting the approach of nationally-determined actions, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA suggested a workshop on ex ante (to the 2015 agreement) clarity.
In the ensuing discussion, participants addressed the inclusion of SIDS in the programme; the results chain; stakeholder involvement; and removal of barriers.
In the absence of these amendments, BOLIVIA, opposed by the EU and the PHILIPPINES, urged deletion of paragraphs 15-23.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, stressed the need to focus on the operative sections of the text.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, the US and Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted that many issues require further consideration by the CMA before such a decision can be made.
AUSTRALIA noted that electricity trading is part of the general issue of trade in high carbon intensive commodities.
On consideration of Article 7.2 (inclusion of supplementary information in national communications), the US, Norway, Saudi Arabia and the EU questioned the timing for the submission of national communications and where this should be treated.
 \t\tThe UMBRELLA GROUP \t\tsupported progress on the Buenos Aires programme of work on adaptation \t\tand response measures (Decision 1/CP.10), national communications, and \t\toperationalizing the Adaptation Fund.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed that it \t\tshould be open to all UNFCCC parties.
NEW ZEALAND said Annex I Parties’ constituencies need assurances that developing countries will adopt binding emissions limitation commitments in a third commitment period.
NEW ZEALAND proposed a political declaration on finance.
Responding to BRAZIL e2 80 99s request to elaborate on Latvia e2 80 99s Climate Change Financial Instrument, she said the national programme has resulted in the implementation of more than 2,200 projects in the areas of energy efficiency, technology conversion, development of GHG-reducing technologies and awareness raising.
Discussion on context was supported by AUSTRALIA, MEXICO, the EU, SOUTH AFRICA, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, India, for the G-77/CHINA, the US, BOLIVIA, SINGAPORE and CHILE.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the importance of developing a timeline for discussion.
Some members of the EU continued to insist that all matters relating to the financial mechanism should be taken by consensus.
e2 80 9d Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), expressed support for working on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decisions and non-paper.
The EU responded that they could move towards compromise if language was added on the implications of adding new greenhouse gases.
On  , South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that starting to report on a regular basis is more important than reporting in a transparent manner.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the need to build consensus and not revisit what has already been agreed upon, and supported bringing specific issues to ministers for guidance.
 Abhisit Vejjajiva, Prime Minister of Thailand, noted encouraging statements at the Secretary-General’s Climate Change Summit by major economies, such as the US, China, Japan and India, expressing unprecedented commitments.
The US said other sources of information for this assessment were also acceptable, and stressed that any actions should be focused and effective.
SUDAN said every review should have a process attached.
COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA proposed provision for bilateral, multilateral and unilateral CDM projects.
CANADA cited examples of inconsistencies in national communications stemming from a lack of clarity in the guidelines.
The Netherlands, supported by the US, proposed inserting a new sentence on the  .
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed developed countries’ continued assurances to continue to lead in the context of a universal agreement in which all parties do their best.
She added that delaying tactics by the US and other developed countries for obstructing progress had become evident.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), underscored the need to maintain the substance and balance of the Paris outcome.
AUSTRALIA proposed a global agreement for each of these sectors and the EU called for global targets for international aviation and maritime emissions, set by the UNFCCC and implemented through the IMO and ICAO.
Other Parties, including the G-77/CHINA, called for more time to consider the volume of documentation.
SUDAN called for guidelines on amending the Annexes.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted pre-sessional discussions on the complexity of assessing comparable mitigation efforts.
Switzerland, with Indonesia, suggested accommodating disasters in the outline, with the US opposing this and Co-Chair Field assuring that extremes and disasters would not be lost in the report.
On timing of submissions of second and, where appropriate, third national communications, the US and SAINT LUCIA questioned the meaning of "availability of financial resources."
The EU said an additional session is unnecessary, but if it was decided she suggested October 2018.
SAMOA and MICRONESIA argued that countries should be prohibited from offsetting their obligations through activities that are neither measurable nor permanent.
On funding sources, the US indicated that the private sector would generate the majority of financing and noted US bilateral initiatives on financing adaptation.
In plenary on 10 December, Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Colombia for AILAC, Republic of Korea for EIG, Ethiopia for the LDCs, Norway, the EU, Canada, New Zealand, Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, and Argentina urged “welcoming,” rather than “noting,” the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C in the draft conclusions (FCCC/SBSTA/2018/L.19).
On MRV, NEW ZEALAND said that consultations were focused on ICA and included issues, such as frequency and categorization.
Regarding finance, BANGLADESH called for increasing the LDC Fund from USD 200 million to USD 2 billion, and for an insurance mechanism.
NEW ZEALAND responded that the Article 19 right of appeal could not be limited.
With MEXICO and the Maldives, for AOSIS, and Colombia, for AILAC, he urged parties to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU called for progress on: national adaptation plans, in particular with relation to LDCs; host of the CTC; capacity-building; NAMA registry; and modalities for the ICA.
INDONESIA supported exploring further innovative financing \t\t\toptions.
  INDIA said it will not agree to changes to Annex B unless a second commitment period is agreed.
On leakage, Japan, supported by Canada and India, but \t\topposed by AOSIS, Brazil and the EU, preferred exempting leakage due to \t\thigh monitoring costs and the fact that major impacts were unlikely, \t\tgiven the projects 92 small size.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said MRV of support is also being discussed in the ADP and called for: coherence and coordination; clarity on the level of financial support to developing countries; guidance on the third forum of the SCF; and finance for forests.
The US and INDIA supported holding a conversation on text on intellectual property rights and a long-term technology goal.
KENYA and UGANDA called for a clear definition of climate finance.
Some countries, particularly the US, continued to insist on emissions credits during the pilot phase.
On finance (Article 6), Costa Rica, for AILAC, asked for a clear roadmap, including a short-term goal, and balance between mitigation and adaptation.
The EU and CHINA said the COP should establish an MCP process.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reminded all delegates that the draft was being accepted ad referendum.
ARGENTINA suggested not only focusing on percentages and time frames but also on standards for economic efficiency.
SAUDI ARABIA supported India and Brazil, noting that it would be unacceptable to renegotiate the Convention, and criticized proposals focusing on the energy sector.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and JAPAN said language on differentiation belongs to the paragraph on individual efforts.
Colombia, Grenada, for AOSIS, and Australia supported the Chair’s proposal.
CHINA said the mandate of the group is to discuss proper legal form, such as the possibility of a legally-binding instrument or COP decisions, rather than substance.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted that the G-77/China proposal did not accurately reflect the language of the Convention.
Switzerland, with AOSIS, supported using the EU proposal as the basis for the COP-6 decision.
  On governance of market approaches under the framework for various approaches, Andrew Prag, OECD, stressed the importance of agreeing on common accounting rules for emissions and targets.
PALESTINE highlighted their unique situation and said he is looking forward to becoming an official Protocol party.
Sweden, for the EUROPEAN UNION (EU), urged parties to increase their emission reduction commitments and welcomed the new Japanese pledge.
Lamenting that, in the first week, the text had been reopened for new insertions, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed readiness to engage with the COP Presidency and looked forward to a “fair process that will take us to a fair outcome.”
CHINA insisted that Parties that are not in a position to report actual figures should be “encouraged” rather than requested to report potential emissions.
The EU said developing draft decision texts in Panama is key for a successful outcome in Durban and called for work towards a comprehensive legally-binding framework engaging all parties, including major economies.
94 The EU, Norway and \t\tSwitzerland then noted that since they did not agree with the word \t\t 93all, 94 the report should not reference the 93SBI.
The EU said the issue of national and cooperative actions to promote technology transfer, and ways of supporting these, are central to the discussions.
Many developing countries supported inviting UNDP and UNEP to consider establishing support programmes, with the US opposed to singling out the two organizations.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a technology framework to consider technology needs assessments, research and development and enabling environments.
Connie Hedegaard, EU Commissioner for Climate Action, said that the EU was ready to take a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU emphasized that the starting point will impact environmental integrity.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the text leaves differentiation to be resolved.
Drawing on their experience, the EU observed that economic diversification policies could offer co-benefits for addressing climate change.
On the composition of the compliance body, BRAZIL stressed the need to involve the entire international community.
It also looks forward to the report from the GEF to COP 14 on progress being made in the implementation of NAPAs under the LDC Fund.
 GERMANY proposed CO2 reduction objectives of 10% by 2005 and 15-20% by 2010, both against a base year of 1990.
Bolivia, FOR THE BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), cited vulnerability as a “top priority” linked to the provision of technology, finance and capacity building.
Recalling recent early-season cyclones, Maldives, for AOSIS, welcomed progress in the research dialogue, and noted incremental progress on Article 6, saying that market mechanisms can help achieve ambition, but environmental integrity must not be eroded.
Discussions focused on: extension of the mandate of the LDC Expert Group (LEG); implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs); and consideration of other issues in the LDC work programme.
NORWAY emphasized the role of the TEC and CTCN in organizing TEMs.
ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened ADP 2-11.
Uganda, for the LDCs, lamented their proposals had not been clearly reflected in the revised negotiating text.
 CHINA proposed including a paragraph noting the G-77/China\'s position paper on guidelines for preparing initial communications from non-Annex I Parties.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA said she could support launching work on issues traditionally on the SBSTA agenda if there is agreement that the SBSTA plenary will reconvene in one week’s time to provide an update on the inclusion of new items in the agenda.
ZAMBIA questioned whether the designated financial mechanism is able to respond to the urgent and immediate adaptation needs of LDCs.
On the COP/ MOP, Japan, Canada, the US and Poland reiterated preference for existing Article 6 provisions.
 PERU said it might be useful to appoint more experts for review work.
On REDD+, with Panama, for the CfRN, Nepal, for the LDCs, Belize, for SICA, and BANGLADESH, he expressed frustration over the lack of progress on the methodological guidance for REDD+, stressing that there is no need for further guidance on safeguards.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed concern that presenting the two views equally would not accurately reflect what transpired in SBSTA, because a majority of Parties endorsed the SAR.
SAUDI ARABIA supported consideration of terms of reference.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted that the proposed registry was intended for such voluntary actions that are already taking place, as well as for those to be matched with support.
The US proposed emphasizing that the use of market mechanisms is voluntary.
Supporting further ministerial engagement, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged agreement on access to market mechanisms during the second commitment period, and called for concluding discussions under the AWG-LCA, acknowledging achievements and moving towards implementation.
 SAUDI ARABIA said a technical report on economic impacts on non-Annex I Parties from new commitments of Annex I Parties needs to be included, as well as an evaluation of climate change avoided by proposed new commitments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said no further decisions were required for the AWG-LCA to terminate in Doha.
The PHILIPPINES emphasized means of implementation in order to achieve broader participation.
The AFRICAN GROUP requested assistance from developed countries in costing adaptation.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, recalled the group’s earlier submission on an equity framework.
The COOK ISLANDS requested information on how the AWG-LCA Chair intends to consider bunker fuels.
MALI requested Annex I Parties to consider capacity-building for focal points and the implementation of NAPAs.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and CHINA said that solutions do not lie with the private sector.
 In its conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2015/L.22), the SBI, inter alia,notes that 32 project proposals for the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) and for the process of NAPs, accounting for a total of US$235.7 million, had been technically cleared by the GEF, but were awaiting funding under the LDCF.
Responding to questions from the US and the EU, the Secretariat said budgeting beyond 1997 will be addressed at the next session of the SBI.
The EU, with NEW ZEALAND and opposed by CHINA, MALAYSIA and BHUTAN, supported including the promotion of natural regeneration within the definitions of "afforestation" and "reforestation."
The EU expressed preparedness for some trade-offs, including the possibility of including adaptation in the INDCs on a voluntary basis.
JAPAN supported using existing institutional mechanisms.
SWITZERLAND supported including those submissions that are not reflected in the non-paper, and TUVALU said that submissions provided at this session should be taken into account.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that ODA would be diverted to climate change-related activities at the expense of other development activities.
MAURITIUS emphasized CDM for poverty alleviation and ETHIOPIA called for elaboration on this at COP-4.
VENEZUELA called for a regular review on the adequacy of commitments.
On representation in the Facilitative Working Group of the Platform, parties agreed to have seven party representatives, including one from each UN regional group, SIDS, and LDCs, and seven from indigenous peoples’ organizations, one each from the seven UN indigenous sociocultural regions.
AOSIS said carbon sequestration projects may not guarantee measurable and long-term effects and expressed concern over the possible inclusion of sinks.
The G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, and Bangladesh, for the LDCs, noted missing elements, such as indigenous peoples e2 80 99 knowledge and practices, economic diversification co-benefits and response measures.
SAINT LUCIA said rules and harmonization should encourage, not deter, parties from taking action, and that no international credits should accrue to countries with point year accounting.
Ecuador, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), called for 300 parts per million (ppm) targets, with temperature increases well below 1.5°C.
The EU called for explicit reference to the 2 c2 b0C goal.
Grenada, supported by the EU, suggested referring to the ways in which renewable energy technology has “improved dramatically,” as was done in the underlying report.
• requests the LEG to organize an event on LDC national adaptation plans in conjunction with SBI 38; and
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), called for the AWG-LCA to ensure a fair outcome on adaptation financing.
The UMBRELLA GROUP opposed a paragraph stating that COP 23 will address the need for procedural clarity regarding draft decisions at CMA 1 relating to the response measures forum and recognition of adaptation efforts.
AUSTRALIA welcomed continuity between current and future areas of work and suggested a greater emphasis on the NWP playing a catalytic role in the next phase.
\t\tAustria and the US suggested attending to this in the rules of procedure \t\trather than in the definitions.
On paragraphs 7-12 (context for preparation of INDCs), NEW ZEALAND said that, when reporting on INDCs, parties should quantify expected emission outcomes, levels of effort and accounting methodologies in the land sector.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said nationally-determined commitments could lead to an insufficient level of action to protect the climate system, and called for separate contact groups for the two workstreams.
PANAMA said the IMO, not the UNFCCC, is the correct forum to discuss maritime emissions.
GHANA said the challenges of climate change mitigation and adaptation present an additional burden to developing countries and with the CARICOM States, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, the US, SAUDI ARABIA, NEW ZEALAND and the G-77/CHINA, called for elaboration of mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol.
Stressing the need for transparency and inclusiveness, he proposed, supported by BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA, that REDD+ discussions should be held in a contact group, rather than in a spinoff group or informal consultations, to ensure the involvement of indigenous peoples and other stakeholders, and that facilitators should be selected from Annex I and non-Annex I countries that have no material or financial interest in REDD+ outcomes.
CHINA proposed that GWP should take into account the inherent and complicated uncertainties involved in GWP estimation.
The G-77/CHINA called for progress on the review of the Adaptation Fund and development of national adaptation plans, and identified intellectual property rights and the host of the Technology Mechanism as “serious hurdles.”
 \t\tGERMANY, with support from many countries and GREENPEACE, and opposed by \t\tSAUDI ARABIA, proposed the development of a special report on renewable \t\tenergy and energy efficiency technologies, and BELGIUM suggested \t\tinclusion of this issue on the agenda for IPCC-25.
Expressing hope for a breakthrough on the financial mechanism in Cancún, the PHILIPPINES supported a separate chapter on financing as a key to “unlocking” other issues under the AWG-LCA.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, said each country should maintain a schedule of actions they intend to take to meet their commitments, with periodic reporting on implementation and revisions to enhance commitments.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the importance of addressing global warming potential, considering the large contribution of methane and nitrous oxide to her country’s emissions profile.
COLOMBIA supported creating sub-headings for durability and timeframes.
The G-77/China’s revised chapeau on objectives received interest from AUSTRALIA, the EU and NORWAY, while they clarified that they had not had the opportunity to fully consider the text.
JAPAN stressed the effectiveness of sectoral approaches.
The UK noted the difficulty in mainstreaming vulnerability assessments within the current business-as-usual policy climate, and stressed the importance of considering local scenarios.
AOSIS said it was premature to discuss crediting without first reaching a common understanding on NAMAs.
On adaptation, Bangladesh, for LDCs, also drew attention to gaps in terms of scaling up support, transparency, accounting, risk management and risk reduction strategies.
Opposed by the EU and the US, Mexico, with Bangladesh, supported conducting, and offered to host, regional and sub-regional TEMs, with Brazil willing to explore this idea.
The G-77/CHINA said that the reference to the draft negotiating text was unwarranted at this stage.
On the sub-section on principles, the US, with the EU, questioned whether it was necessary here and suggested concentrating on the operational part of the capacity building section.
 The US did not support the suggestion that progress can be achieved through differentiation and said that under a flat rate countries could accomplish more.
CHILE noted that a text would encourage signs of political will to compromise in a new negotiation phase.
 INDIA stressed the importance of national communications as part of an ongoing process.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS concurred with this and, supported by ECUADOR, suggested requesting the governing bodies of international organizations to give a high priority to work in support of the FCCC process.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, highlighted the need for capacity building for a range of issues, including NAMAs, MRV and REDD+.
He said delegates would have to take US comments and their support into account, although definitions related to "forest management" could be a task for SBSTA.
On a statement on economic and \t\t\tsocial costs of extreme weather events, the US asked about the basis \t\t\tof the reference to social costs.
The US supported an open, inclusive and transparent process for the EGTT.
NIGERIA said if the Bureau is to be expanded the African Group will make its own request because it has the most members.
When first considering the question in \t\t\tplenary on Monday, the US suggested a general reference to the \t\t\tpaucity of coverage in many regions, instead of singling out Africa \t\t\tand Southeast Asia.
NEW ZEALAND said the ideal outcome would be a comprehensive, legally-binding agreement involving all major emitters, but that an interim arrangement could be made for the transitional period, consisting of a second commitment period under the Protocol and a parallel agreement with other major emitters.
 The US and Australia, to name a few developed countries, seemed to be pleased with the outcome.
Delegates considered various options, including an EU proposal for a CCS pilot phase under the CDM.
The US said that public funding is most effectively used for purposes such as adaptation and capacity building.
JAPAN outlined three core elements: necessity of action by all countries; necessity of realizing a low-carbon society; and importance of innovative technologies.
Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on the work mandated in Durban, including on a science-based Review that is narrow in scope.
The EU and AUSTRALIA outlined their low-carbon development planning processes and highlighted them as a way in which all countries could, in the context of appropriate levels of funding, facilitate action on technology transfer.
On mitigation, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, the US and others said that the INDCs imply self-differentiation.
INDIA, INDONESIA and others underlined the need to relax IPRs.
BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and LESOTHO supported this, stressing the need to start working promptly.
The EU identified synergies with their proposal on sectoral crediting, while noting concerns over the attribution of emission reductions and monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV).
The US and AUSTRALIA proposed deleting text requesting the Secretariat to compile information on P&amp;Ms implemented and planned by Annex I Parties, noting the significant resource implications for the Secretariat.
PAKISTAN suggested that the TEC and TCN be under the authority of the COP, seek to enhance cooperation and remove barriers, and that the TEC should be a stand-alone body, reporting directly to the COP.
The G-77/CHINA said differences in the nature, scope, purpose of and participation in the three mechanisms should be determined first.
Venezuela, on behalf of ALBA, stated that markets are not the only solution to achieving ambitious emission reductions and urged parties to undertake real and responsible commitments under the principle of CBDR.
The G-77/CHINA said that funding pledged outside the Convention did not fulfill developed countries’ commitments under the Convention.
ARGENTINA highlighted the work of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer.
GRENADA said the COP 24 outcome should strongly reflect the Talanoa process and recognize the 2019 Climate Summit as an important political moment to further raise ambition.
He also requested that paragraph (7)(e) of the US proposal, requesting the Secretariat to submit a paper describing historic trends of emissions and changes in sequestration levels, be included in the final record.
The GAMBIA, for LDCs, said the share of proceeds should be expanded to include JI and emissions trading to provide additional financing for the Adaptation Fund.
BRAZIL agreed on the need to consider essential points such as additionality.
The EU suggested the option of an extra \t\tpercentage of additional removals to account for leakage.
Calling for technical progress not to be threatened by political discussions under the APA contact group, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for evening sessions to allow for experts from groups with interlinkages to participate in negotiations.
ZAMBIA highlighted that the decisions will set a precedent on how to deal with appeals and suggested requesting legal guidance on ways to proceed.
SWITZERLAND said all issues should be considered by a “Committee of the Whole” as soon as possible.
CHINA preferred addressing the issue in the informal groups on developed country mitigation and developing country NAMAs.
The US also outlined a proposal to establish centers of excellence, and a climate technology hub or core to, inter alia, increase availability, capacity and information exchange related to technology.
He said the EU’s proposed protocol meets these requirements and can evolve over time.
He also called for turning INDCs into legally binding commitments, taking into account the special circumstances of SIDS and LDCs.
The US and NEW ZEALAND questioned the value of a political process at this stage, given that the previous commitments to fast- start finance made in Copenhagen and Cancun were achieved.
AUSTRALIA was prepared to accept the redrafted text as it was read initially, in the spirit of compromise, but added that an explicit reference to the G-77 and China paper could be made without precluding others by referring to the specific document number.
New Zealand and the US opposed establishment of such a mechanism.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA proposed flagging which options produce more ambitious environmental outcomes and called for using 1990 as the common base year.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the lack of questions from the Chair on IPRs and supported the establishment of a global technology transfer and IPR pool to ensure access by developing countries to technologies protected by IPRs.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for adoption of a draft negotiating text for the 2015 agreement, an ADP decision on INDCs that is balanced across elements, and an agreement on a pre-2020 workplan to close the mitigation gap.
The EU underscored the Montreal Protocol’s Multilateral Fund and noted that their proposed low-carbon development strategies are not a prerequisite for adaptation funding.
Chile, for AILAC, indicated that developed countries need to do more to support extant arrangements.
On the needs of LDCs, including SIDS, the note suggested: a separate work programme to be financed by the GEF, which would focus on vulnerability and adaptation needs assessment, including technology transfer and capacity building; development of national adaptation programmes of action; implementation of concrete adaptation projects; and the establishment of an LDC group of experts.
The G-77/China called for a contact group to develop \t\tmore guidance to the GEF, while the EU said the GEF review should be \t\tdiscussed under the agenda item on the report of the GEF.
The EU identified factors hindering action, including that 20% of the cost of switching to renewable energy is associated with investment costs.
The EU and the US sought intensification of the process, in particular through technical workshops.
JAPAN and the US doubted the value of using one set of indicators to evaluate national policies.
Likewise, the US questioned the value added of the approach, and cautioned against country-specific definitions, which would pose challenges for comparability and possibly introduce inconsistencies and loopholes.
The US suggested bracketing the paragraphs on objectives, guiding principles and scope, preferring to focus on the operative text.
AUSTRALIA underscored that their contribution will depend on several factors, such as comparable efforts by developed countries and efforts by all UNFCCC parties.
NORWAY highlighted the need to provide a clear message to the GEF on the need to support non-Annex I national communications in a more systematic way.
Brazil, for the  G-77/CHINA, said proposed actions in sectors should be voluntary and compatible with an open international economic system.
Belize, for AOSIS, highlighted the need to limit temperature increase to below 1.5°C, stressing that 2°C is inconsistent with the Convention’s precautionary approach.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by a number of parties, and opposed by the ARAB GROUP, introduced a new paragraph urging the update to the synthesis report to take into account 1.5 c2 b0C scenarios.
CHINA urged \t\taccelerated approval of methodologies and a focus on energy efficiency.
SINGAPORE said an ICA system should be: technical, not political or politicized; party-driven; based on technical expertise including that of parties concerned, and on the objectives established by the concerned developing country; and carried out in the spirit of mutual respect.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: Delegates considered SBI 92s recommendation on matters related to non-Annex I communications (FCCC/SBI/1999/CRP.10 and Add.1), which includes the terms of reference of the consultative group (CG) of experts on non-Annex I national communications.
On the annex (INDC information), Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested consideration of mitigation, adaptation and MOI options with and without differentiation.
Norway advocated joint targets for OECD countries based on equitable sharing of responsibility.
The EU agreed and welcomed the Chinese proposal.
On institutions for adaptation, the G-77/China, Switzerland, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Nauru, for AOSIS, the EU, Norway, Japan, New Zealand, Brazil and Turkey called for building on existing institutions and mechanisms, such as the Cancun Adaptation Framework.
The G-77/ CHINA said ongoing discussions in other groups should not prevent guidance being given to the financial mechanism.
NORWAY, the EU and the US said this section should be succinct, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION adding it should be scientifically-based.
MALAYSIA and INDIA emphasized MOI in the context of equity and historical responsibility.
MEXICO recommended including concepts relating to the voluntary nature of the mechanisms and environmental integrity.
The DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted that a liaison office in Geneva was essential for developing countries that have missions in Geneva but not in Bonn.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION introduced a draft decision (FCCC/CP/2014/CRP.1), noting the critical juncture of the negotiations in the lead-up to Paris.
UZBEKISTAN called for the retention of text noting that JI can serve as an instrument to allow technology transfer on a more beneficial basis.
Exchanging views on the draft decision text, Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed adding a placeholder to outcomes from Adaptation Fund consultations underway “under the APA.” Muyungi said the Co-Chairs did not have a mandate to cross-reference text to a stand-alone agenda item.
The US said Decision 1/CP.21 is sufficiently clear on this matter.
Supported by KENYA and POLAND, she said there is a need to get information to all levels of society and to improve regional participation using local experts.
On Monday, Acting IPCC Secretary Sivakumar presented this item (IPCC-XLIII/Doc.4), noting the Secretariat had received four new requests since IPCC-42, including three organizations already accredited as observers with the UNFCCC and UNEP: Economic Cooperation Organization; Yale University, US; and University College London, UK.
NORWAY outlined a recent \t\tanalysis on ways of achieving Norway 92s national emission targets, which \t\tinclude becoming carbon neutral by 2050.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for scientific studies on the implications for SIDS of temperatures at and above 2⁰C, which he said should be available before COP 14.
SOUTH AFRICA, with others, stressed the need to avoid replicating work and to focus on implementation.
The EU said that COP 22 shows that the world is ready to move ahead and “drastically accelerate” work to establish a rules-based system fit for purpose and turn the Paris Agreement into a fully-operational agreement.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS presented detailed suggestions, including extending the AWG-LCA’s mandate to take into account elements from proposals under Convention Article 17.
e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND suggested specifying that parties with less capability may also communicate enhanced efforts contingent on provision of support.
NEW ZEALAND suggested providing such information in national communications.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA spoke about the transfer of publicly-funded technologies, noting governments’ major role in research and development, as market regulators, and as end users.
Regarding the US statement, one delegate expressed concern about the impact of a requirement for tradeable emission permits on a binding agreement.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA called for increasing official development assistance, which offers a predictable funding source for technology.
Australia joined the US in stressing that the IPCC 92s role be \t\tlimited to assessment of emission scenarios while Germany, the \t\tNetherlands, and others supported a broader coordination role for the \t\tIPCC.
Following a short break for consultations, the G-77/CHINA was unable to agree a united position on the text.
THAILAND underscored equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, emphasized, inter alia: the urgent need for pre-2020 action; adaptation as a priority for developing countries; and enhanced participation of indigenous peoples in the UNFCCC process.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, reiterated the need for a second commitment period in time to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
VENEZUELA stressed the need to incorporate Convention Article 3.5 (promoting a supportive and open international economic system).
Ecuador, China, Cuba and Uganda, for the LDCs, called for submissions on the issue.
\t\t\tThe UK, supported by other delegations, suggested that long-term \t\t\tcarbon cycle feedback better falls within the realm of the other \t\t\tworking groups.
 INDIA noted the projected values for emissions of all GHGs are substantially higher than 1990 levels, and fall far short of the Convention\'s goals.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, called on developed countries to continue the legally-binding nature of their obligations and avoid a gap between commitment periods.
The EU opposed the additional text proposed by the US.
The US, supported by the UK and opposed by Saint Lucia, Switzerland, the Bahamas and Austria, suggested moving a sentence stating that e2 80 9cgreater rates and magnitude of climate change increase the likelihood of exceeding adaptation limits e2 80 9d to the section dealing with adaptation.
The European Union (EU) noted the table does not include a just transition to low-GHG economies, and, with India, gender equality.
INDIA stressed that biennial reports are the basis on which IAR will be conducted and that Annex I parties should indicate targets for emission reductions.
TUVALU, supported by NORWAY and ZAMBIA, considered financing of readiness activities and implementation to represent a spectrum within a single issue.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed hope that the Adaptation Fund would serve as a primary vehicle for adaptation fast-start financing.
The COOK ISLANDS said many delegations are aware of efforts in the Pacific Islands.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), underscored the need for methodological work on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries (REDD+).
CROATIA expressed disappointment with the decision not to approve its request regarding calculation of its Assigned Amount and commitment period reserve and noted its intention to appeal the decision.
MALI called for a robust rules-based regime equipped with international review systems and a compliance mechanism with facilitative and enforcement modalities, and suggested that the Standing Committee on finance coordinate an international mechanism for MRV of support.
The UK, for the EU, responded to the US proposal made on Monday for phasing in credits for activities under Article 3.4.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the need to consider implications of new approaches on the carbon price.
JAPAN supported setting a mid-term target in the form of quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs) for developed countries, as well as NAMAs and low-carbon growth strategies for developing countries.
INDIA emphasized waste \t\tmanagement and sectoral distribution of CDM projects, and observed that \t\tmost technology investment under the CDM is from non-Annex I parties \t\tthemselves.
MEXICO underscored the need to develop capacities to assess vulnerability.
COLOMBIA called for, inter alia, discussion of decision-making by the committee and recommended resorting to qualified majority in the absence of consensus.
On the draft decision text on Article 5.2 for COP-6 and COP/MOP-1, Saudi Arabia, supported by Tuvalu, Peru, China and Brazil, and opposed by the US and New Zealand, suggested deleting references to activities under Article 3.3 and 3.4 at this stage.
On the plenary of the Compliance Committee, the G-77/China, opposed by the US, EU, Australia, the Russian Federation and New Zealand, said it should have an allocation as well as a preliminary examination function.
The PHILIPPINES called for ensuring integrity of a variety of ecosystems.
 The EU called for ensuring environmental integrity and avoiding double counting under CORSIA, and said action under the IMO should not be delayed until 2023.
There was divergence over the purpose of the framework, with the US, Canada and the EU stating that it should enhance implementation of Article 4.5.
 The Chair responded that preparations for the workshop included invitations for all possible participants and that OPEC was invited but declined to attend.
The US and Singapore welcomed the adoption of CORSIA and the IMO’s amendment of the MARPOL Convention on fuel consumption by ships, with Singapore stressing the need to develop long-term measures on shipping emissions.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about calls by Annex I parties to end the Kyoto Protocol in favor of a single agreement in Copenhagen.
BULGARIA called for a meeting to address the specific features of countries with economies in transition (EITs) before COP-6.
The Republic of Korea, Japan, Bulgaria, Ethiopia, Kenya, the EU and Brazil urged remaining countries to ratify.
With the US and CANADA, he suggested that the revised uniform reporting format be discussed at SBSTA-14.
The US said capacity building is enhanced by more frequent national communications and the EU stressed the importance of establishing and maintaining national teams to initiate learning processes.
Parties agreed to informal consultations co-facilitated by Andrew Rakestraw (US) and Xiang Gao (China).
Noting its flexibility on these paragraphs, the EU reiterated its support for a process to allow for the further submission of Parties 92 views.
The EU said the fact that large portions of the text, including on new market mechanisms and consequential Protocol amendments, have not yet been discussed was “very, very worrying.” AOSIS supported discussions of the text on consequential Protocol amendments.
  Focusing on risk and insurance, many parties underscored early warning systems, vulnerability of SIDS and LDCs, and data gathering.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said all elements of a legally-binding agreement that guarantees survival of SIDS and other vulnerable developing countries are embedded in the existing text, but that political will is required to realize an agreement.
The US expressed optimism based on: an agreed objective by parties; steps by major players to make near-term contributions; advancement of negotiations on institutions for financing; and sustained engagement by international leaders.
Regarding amendments to the terms and conditions of services to be provided by the World Bank, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with the timeline for reviewing the Fund at COP/MOP 7 and the AFB’s proposal to extend the mandate of the World Bank as a trustee on an interim basis until COP/MOP 9.
The EU, Japan, Australia and Canada underlined the CDM 92s role in advancing technology transfer to developing countries.
The EU noted good progress on transparency of action and support, and on the Adaptation Fund, but noted different understandings on the GST.
The US and Switzerland noted similar discussions taking place in the CGE group, and the EU suggested that the groups might be combined at some point.
Recognizing the vulnerability of small island States, NEW ZEALAND called for support to AOSIS.
On the scope of the review, the EU suggested that it cover cancellation of assigned amount units, including cancellation with respect to Article 3.3 and 3.4.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, highlighted the gulf between REDD+ accounting requirements for developing countries and the flexibility in LULUCF accounting for developed countries.
The EU expressed interest in further examining the CDM question.
The US stressed economic growth as the key to environmental progress, cautioning against burdensome targets for developing countries.
The US welcomed efforts undertaken both bilaterally and multilaterally, and inside and outside the Convention.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), called for short-term commitment cycles, and linkages among mitigation, adaptation, loss and damage, and means of implementation (MOI).
JAPAN drew attention to the fact that although the COP/MOP plays a role as a general assembly and has a legitimizing function with respect to final decisions of the compliance body, due to the nature of COP/MOP it is practically difficult for it to consider all the relevant issues.
JAPAN said universal peer review could provide a tool to incentivize participation.
She called for mechanisms to address loss and damage through insurance and noted the burden that monitoring, reporting and verfication (MRV) of adaptation programmes places on LDCs and SIDS.
SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, the US, NIGERIA and BRAZIL said the paper developed by the Co-Chairs should be based on more sources of information.
The AOSIS proposal states that, inter alia, the total quantity of AAUs, Certified Emission Reductions and Emission Reduction Units approved for carry-over, and carried over from the previous commitment period, shall be deemed a party’s previous period surplus reserve.
 The SBI considered the report of the GEF, with the G-77/CHINA highlighting concerns over the length of time between project approval and availability of funds, the impact of currency fluctuations, and the need for adequate funding for support programmes.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA and the EU, suggested “closing” discussion of decision 1/CP.10 since those matters, such as adaptation, are being discussed in other bodies.SAUDI ARABIA, with the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, maintained that there has not been sufficient progress on the operational requirements for response measures and suggested an item-by-item review of the relevant aspects of the decisions.
 The US expressed thanks to Germany for her "adroit handling" of the text and supported the redraft despite "strong views" on paragraph VII(d), requests to the Secretariat.
Austria, \t\t\tGermany and the UK proposed language to clarify the sentence, and \t\t\tWGIII agreed to move reference to expert debate to a footnote.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, acknowledged that the Accord is a compromise and does not go far enough, but that further work should be conducted to improve it.
With the SEYCHELLES, he suggested that an additional six months would allow for a more careful consideration of the TAR by developing countries.
CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, proposed a new preambular paragraph noting e2 80 9cthe agreed outcome pursuant to the BAP and the Doha Amendment.
Calling for a strong outcome in Copenhagen, Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed that it is not acceptable to begin a new roadmap in Copenhagen and said that the non-papers from the Bangkok session provide a good basis for substantive progress in Barcelona.
He \t\tunderscored priorities such as the adaptation work programme, the SCCF, \t\tand the LDC Fund and Adaptation Funds.
Sweden, for the EU, called for a Copenhagen agreement to be inclusive, encompass non-Annex I parties, cover all building blocks and be based on the principles of the Convention.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, noted that the reference to adaptation measures had been omitted.
 The PHILIPPINES drew attention to related discussions under the AWG-LCA, and suggested convening a joint meeting between the COP contact group and the AWG-LCA.
SENEGAL noted that African countries have already made serious sacrifices to apply the FCCC but lack sufficient resources.
CANADA identified the need for: stakeholder involvement; scaled-up financing; forecasting data; and highlighting the roles and responsibilities of all countries.
The EU and NORWAY supported inclusion of HFCs and PFCs.
NORWAY said review should harness unrealized opportunities.
Guatemala, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), congratulated parties for the spirit shown during the week, noting that this is “the first time we can call the text our own.”
Barbados, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said funding for adaptation, through new initiatives and on a grant basis, should meet the full cost of adaptation.
CHINA highlighted that his country has submitted a pledge to lower emissions by 40-45% per unit of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2020 compared with the 2005 level.
Supporting TUVALU, BRAZIL said that if activities under Article 3.4 (additional human induced activities) were expanded, the IPCC should be invited to assess the issue of “factoring out” to enhance understanding of anthropogenic versus natural carbon stock changes.
SWITZERLAND stressed adequacy and predictability in the flow of funds.
Ecuador, for ALBA, proposed organizing a high-level meeting before Durban to push for increased ambition levels and said hosting the next intersessional in Panama would reflect the region’s efforts in this process.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the report, stating that it was yet to be finalized and adopted by ICAO, and was based on the findings of a very limited group with experts mainly from Annex I countries.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need for accelerating work under the NWP.
The UK stressed enhancing the private sector ef bf bds \t\tparticipation.
Ecuador, for ALBA, emphasized developed country mitigation as a critical pending issue from the BAP.
The G-77/China and the US stressed the need to keep the two AWGs as separate and parallel processes, while others, including Switzerland, Canada and Australia, highlighted interlinkages.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said applying the draft guiding principles would not ensure transparency, consistency and comparability of NCs and advocated applying only adopted principles.
On supplementarity, the EU, G-77/CHINA and HUNGARY emphasized domestic action as the primary means to fulfill commitments.
SOUTH AFRICA said all additional actions that are supplementary to pledges could be recognized, as long as such actions are subject to the Convention principles and environmental integrity.
The EU highlighted the importance of quantifying the effectiveness of Annex I Parties 92 domestic actions, and called for workshops to be held in accordance with terms of reference to be adopted by SBSTA-13.
The EU alluded to its experience with a top-down approach, which looks at science for defining the scale of necessary emission reductions, and then works bottom up to identify how emissions could be reduced and under which sectors.
Barbados, for AOSIS, with COLOMBIA, for Chile, Peru, Costa Rica and Guatemala, and others, supported the Chair’s recommendation on the need for a political process covering the scaling up and mobilization of climate finance, as well as for intensified and more structured work in processes under the Convention, focusing on sources and options for mobilizing climate finance in the short-, medium- and long-term.
The US called for addressing response measures, blue carbon and water under existing agenda items.
SWEDEN highlighted the value of EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
ZIMBABWE noted that communications and dialogue between policy makers and scientists needed to be two-directional.
The US stressed the necessity of ascertaining the connection between the provision of finance and actions, including what the finance is being provided for.
In an afternoon meeting of the contact group, SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, introduced their proposed changes to the Co-Chairs 92 text, that would limit credits for carbon sequestration due to windfall effects caused by, inter alia, carbon dioxide fertilization, nitrogen deposition, age structure effects of forests, and climate change.
BOLIVIA supported future work on vulnerable stakeholder groups, including women, and highlighted indigenous knowledge and key sectors, such as water.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed including reference to developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the impact of response measures in the text that identifies parties requiring adaptation assistance.
In March 2001, the US administration declared its opposition to the Protocol, stating that it believed it to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempted developing countries from fully participating.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, the EU and G-77/CHINA, \t\trequested removing agenda item 11(a) relating to small island developing \t\tStates (SIDS).
A new negotiating \t\ttext will be drafted, based on submissions by the G-77/CHINA, US, EU, \t\tAOSIS and others.
The US said the COP rather than the Secretariat had the authority to decide such issues.
AOSIS said they were prepared to move forward and, with South Africa, hoped that the consolidated paragraphs could become the basis of a negotiating document.
Sweden, for the EU, as well as INDONESIA, SIERRA LEONE, the PHILIPPINES and ZAMBIA called for SBSTA 31 to prioritize REDD.
IRELAND and NORWAY highlighted linkages between climate change and poverty.
JAPAN acknowledged concerns over the Fund’s legal personality and ambiguity in the relationship between the Fund and the Convention, but said the newly-established Board could address these concerns.
The Gambia, for LDCs, welcomed progress on procedural issues under the NWP.
The US stressed the importance of improving parties’ oversight of calls for action and action pledges.
BRAZIL noted that this could co-exist with a clear statement that non-Annex I Parties did not have commitments.
Panama, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), called for ensuring resources for implementing the WIM, and for transparency and environmental integrity of the Article 6 mechanisms.
BENIN and SENEGAL highlighted linkages between Africa’s participation in the carbon market and the role of forestry.
COLOMBIA suggested considering an intermediate funding target for the mid-term period.
  On ambitious mitigation policies, options and initiatives, OECD noted the launch by the International Transport Forum of the Decarbonising Transport project.
On further work, Maldives, for AOSIS, and others called for setting a workplan through 2018.
FRANCE cautioned that failure to approve the funding document might hinder input from the COP to the next GEF replenishment.
 In Appendix III, the US added "intergovernmental" to the table wherever "technical advisory panels" appears.
The \t\tNETHERLANDS, for the EU, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, expressed \t\tcontinued commitment to addressing climate change and highlighted the \t\tlaunch of the EU emissions trading scheme in January 2005.
AOSIS supported focused submissions on adaptation communications, the GST and an in-session roundtable on compliance.
GEORGIA noted the readiness of many non-Annex I countries to take on voluntary commitments on GHGs, with adequate support under Article 4 within the framework of CDM.
AOSIS stressed the urgency of the question of insurance and, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, viewed the additions to the agenda item title as technical rather than substantive.
This was opposed by several parties, with CANADA emphasizing that the objective of the technical paper is to assist parties in moving forward with the appeal by Croatia.
The eighteenth session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC-18) was held from 24-29 September 2001, in London, UK.
Hungary suggested that the AIJ experience should be used to implement JI, and the EU said it could be used to elaborate the CDM Reference Manual.
China, the Philippines, the Arab Group and others supported using the text as a basis for further work, while the Umbrella Group, the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), the EU, Canada and others opposed this.
NEW ZEALAND acknowledged that capacity-building needs change over time.
 \t\t\tDebate ensued on language in a \t\t\tparagraph requesting “the executive secretary in the course of \t\t\timplementing the programme budget to make every effort to ensure \t\t\tthat support to developing countries and other key areas of work in \t\t\tthe proposed programme budget is not affected.” The EU, supported by \t\t\tthe US, suggested deleting “ensure that” and inserting “provide \t\t\tsufficient support.” The G-77/CHINA clarified that it had accepted \t\t\tthe lower budget proposal on the condition that developing country \t\t\tactivities were not implicated.
On ICA, the US highlighted that, according to the Cancun agreements, a technical analysis should be followed by consultations and suggested these be held in the subsidiary bodies for the sake of transparency and in a non-intrusive and non-punitive manner.
CHINA and INDIA \t\t\topposed an increase of the threshold.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a legally-binding agreement that would sit alongside a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period, stressing that “Cancun must not compromise the future.” She welcomed the Chair’s paper, expressing satisfaction with some elements of it, such as elements on adaptation.
SAUDI ARABIA warned that during consolidation care must be taken not to dilute or delete proposals.
Expressing disappointment with progress made in SBI 41, Nauru, for AOSIS, said Lima should have identified how net mitigation can be built into the CDM, including through conservative baselines, shortened crediting periods and cancellations, and looked forward to continuing work on net mitigation in SBI 42.
The EU presented its proposal on general accounting principles and identified overlaps with the land-use sector.
NEW ZEALAND advocated capturing the Secretariat’s experience in managing the current system, as Secretariat staff will be “at the sharp end of any framework” agreed by parties.
SOUTH AFRICA called for a mechanism to assess contributions of developed countries based on GDP.
Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), called for living up to the promises made in Paris and stressed that delaying work beyond COP 24 is not an option.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern that the APA is not on track to complete the PAWP by the end of the year, and requested additional time be allocated to APA agenda items 3, 6 (global stocktake), and 5 (transparency framework).
 On an MCP’s functions, FRANCE wished to reserve the opportunity for the COP to entrust tasks to an MCP and said a five-member MCP could be feasible considering the likelihood of additional ex officio members.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that the cycle must be linked to reviewing ambition and implementation of all six elements under the Durban mandate, and called for differentiation in the cycle for developing countries.
COLOMBIA, supported by BRAZIL, suggested a spin-off group to address scaling up of climate finance and avoiding a financial gap between 2012 and 2020.
NORWAY said commitments should become legally binding obligations once they are put forward through an annex or schedule.
BARBADOS highlighted the need to consider a mechanism to address loss and damage.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION identified the need to simplify LULUCF rules.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and others stressed the need to consider safety and other issues.
KUWAIT said the COP is the supreme body as affirmed in Article 11.1 of the FCCC and not the GEF Council.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, cited a lack of progress on agenda item 3 and further matters, including modalities for Agreement Article 9.5 (ex-ante finance transparency) under the APA, and urged parties to decide, at COP 23, that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an effective global climate change framework and highlighted a package of elements that would enable progress and ensure environmental integrity, including: international consultation and analysis (ICA); international assessment and review (IAR); and MRV.
The EU said that Canada 92s insurance policies approach does not fully address non-permanence because insurance can expire as early as ten years after the end of the crediting period.
CHINA called for action on funding and technology transfer, noting these are not to be limited to the CDM.
The PHILIPPINES said the AWG-LCA was not the right forum for discussing non-Annex I national communications and THAILAND noted that the revision of the non-Annex I reporting guidelines should be done by the SBI.
He could not accept IRAN’s proposed condition that QELROs for Annex I Parties must not affect international trade or national incomes of developing countries, particularly those exporting fossil fuels.
SUDAN stated \t\tthat, as climate phenomena increase in intensity, adaptive abilities are \t\tlost and therefore sustainable livelihood approaches are crucial.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA proposed crediting NAMAs and discussion under both AWGs.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for addressing mitigation and adaptation elements in a balanced manner, underscoring the importance of adaptation for agriculture and the need to increase agricultural productivity for food security, particularly in developing countries.
BOLIVIA expressed concerns with the continuation of markets for parties not subscribing to targets under a second commitment period.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said the needs assessment should be used to "facilitate efforts" by Annex II Parties, while the G-77/CHINA preferred stating that they should "facilitate transfer of and access to ESTs."
 \t\tQUANTIFIED EMISSION REDUCTION COMMITMENT \t\tFOR BELARUS
He preferred the concept of "good practices" to "best practices" and, with the US, highlighted the importance of completing national inventories.
NORWAY said the work of the two AWGs forms the basis of a comprehensive package in Copenhagen and supported joint meetings.
 NORWAY expressed willingness for a second commitment period as part of a balanced outcome.
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that operationalizing the GCF cannot be delayed in spite of its shortcomings, which include lack of a dedicated small island developing states (SIDS) and LDC funding window, and the lack of provision for a replenishment process.
Highlighting the bifurcated structure of the current MRV framework under the Convention as a starting point, CHINA, with Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the PHILIPPINES, stressed that differentiation should be embedded systematically in the structure of the framework, not as a varying aspect of each element.
CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, requested that future progress reports should be prepared, bearing in mind COP-2 Decision 10, which requests the secretariat to report on its activities.
IRAN said the cost-effectiveness of AIJ projects should be considered and noted that some projects have been financed with GEF funds.
SWITZERLAND called for a space to share best practices.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND, SWITZERLAND and others emphasized the importance of a shared vision, and NEW ZEALAND identified long-term goal, such as emissions targets or maximum temperature goals, as a key component of a shared vision.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said the national adaptation plans process was distinct and separate from the NAPA process.
The US inquired about other possible vehicles for capturing progress.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that capacity building was for developing countries not for the Secretariat.
The EU identified three types of mitigation actions by developing countries: low-cost and win-win actions, with some international support to address barriers; appropriate additional actions supported by international resources; and further mitigation through international crediting mechanisms.
Parties then agreed to: further consult on the fourth review of the financial mechanism, concentrating on the issues where information is available; postpone the review of the GEF’s report and guidance to the GEF until the report is available, with NORWAY asking the Secretariat to provide information on guidance to the GEF under other conventions; and postpone the assessment of the Special Climate Change Fund to SBI 33, as no reports or submissions by parties are available at this moment.
JAPAN said the framework should help each party improve its reporting over time.
The EU noted the need to take into account ongoing, relevant discussions under other SBI agenda items, the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
Upon resumption, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, KUWAIT and QATAR, said they could not accept the proposed compromise, which would have included reference to spillover effects.
The EU, supported by Norway, highlighted the “fine and balanced” Durban compromise, consisting of: a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; a pre-2020 mitigation work plan; agreement by 2015 applicable to all; concluding the AWG-LCA; and operationalizing the institutions created in Cancun and Durban.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed satisfaction with APA discussions on NDCs and adaptation communication, on which he noted the need to retain a common set of elements.
Sweden, for the EU, emphasized the need to condense the negotiating text and focus on the key political issues forming the pillars.
The G-77/CHINA noted that the preamble of the Berlin Mandate focuses on review of commitments under Articles 4.2(a) and (b), stating that the scope of the new instrument should include P&amp;Ms, QELROs and continuing commitments under Article 4.1.
JAPAN and CHINA called for a simple process through the publication of the INDCs on the UNFCCC website, with CHINA objecting to compilation of INDCs by the Secretariat.
The G- 77/CHINA, supported by VENEZUELA, NIGERIA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, MEXICO, GAMBIA, MALAYSIA and MOROCCO, stressed that the instrument should not deviate from the Berlin Mandate.
Australia and the US supported a stock-taking exercise to review available information, including from recent workshops, while AOSIS endorsed continuing information exchange, an examination of policy formulation processes, and sectoral analysis.
AUSTRALIA and Spain, for the EU, emphasized that the document should acknowledge that implementation is already occurring.
SINGAPORE said proposals, such as those relating to NAMA registries, should be reflected in the text.
The EU said the pre-2020 focus is not indicated in the text.
The EU commended the work of the LEG, and underscored the importance of adaptation for sustainable development and poverty eradication.
JAPAN and SINGAPORE said that ICAO and IMO are the appropriate bodies to address this issue.
With Australia and Burkina Faso, she also requested reference to particularly vulnerable states, including SIDS and LDCs.
The EU, US, Australia and AOSIS expressed disappointment over the lack of agreement and proposed that the draft conclusions include paragraphs on which there was some agreement.
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, opposed by \t\tthe EU, Japan and Norway, proposed removing the agenda item.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with the EU, among others, welcomed progress made by the constituted bodies.
On the contribution of international organizations to the process, the G-77/China and Saudi Arabia urged specific reference to OPEC.
 \t\tIn the afternoon plenary session, the \t\tRUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and SWITZERLAND, requested \t\tthat the compilation of governments ef bf bd comments on the 2006 Guidelines be \t\tmade available to the plenary.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that the compliance system be concerned with ensuring compliance rather than preventing non-compliance.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Panama and Uruguay, said market-based approaches have proven to, inter alia: encourage private sector investment; benefit local environments; and contribute to job creation.
In the ensuing discussion, NEW ZEALAND noted that equity is applied continuously under the UNFCCC, including: in the decision-making process; the establishment of institutions; and actions taken, in the absence of definition.
IRAN stressed non-state parties and observers should not be triggers.
FRANCE \t\tadded that integrated scenarios might be beyond the scope of the IPCC, \t\tand, with the NETHERLANDS and others, noted the need to focus on a small \t\tnumber of scenarios.
JORDAN, INDIA, CHINA and VENEZUELA opposed reference to the catalyzing role of sub-national authorities in enhancing the impact of implementation of policies on reducing emissions and vulnerability, and building resilience.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS highlighted the decision by ministers in Durban to launch the mitigation work plan.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to adopt a clear and ambitious action plan and work programme that incorporates REDD+ implementation as a key component.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, said 132.8 is different from the options contained in 130 and the two should not be merged.
Noting the need to reform the GEF, CANADA called for the creation of a "window" within the GEF to deal with special climate change issues such as adaptation.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that it had not joined the consensus on the IMO strategy.
Acknowledging the important role of public finance, the EU emphasized the need for the generation of financial resources to be “compatible with the real world,” where a range of sources are used to generate financing.
CHINA stressed the importance of the forum to minimize or prevent the negative impacts of response measures, and expressed concern with the inclusion of aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
The US believes these views are fully reflected in the Declaration.
INDONESIA supported a review process every five years.
The EU noted that work had also been halted on LULUCF under the AWG-KP.
The EU stressed emissions reductions as the main emphasis when elaborating Article 3.4.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, called for linking opportunities demonstrated by the TEM to action on the ground, and Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the TEM to result in tangible action items.
The G-77, supported by the US and Australia, proposed deleting the bracketed phrase in paragraph 1(a)(v), if 2(e) remains in the text.
SOUTH AFRICA, with COLOMBIA, Grenada, for AOSIS, AUSTRALIA, Spain, for the EU, JAMAICA, BOLIVIA, NIGERIA, GUATEMALA, and PAPUA NEW GUINEA, regretted the lack of an outcome on this item and supported further discussions at SBSTA 33.
 When the consultations reconvened on Monday afternoon, OECD countries distributed their comments on the paper produced by the "like-minded States."
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA said that Parties, upon establishment of their assigned amount and until expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments, "should" not make a transfer resulting in these holdings falling below the required commitment period reserve level.
Saying the EU had played a constructive role in the informal discussions on political pre-conditions, Tuvalu, supported by the LDCs, urged other parties to clarify their political pre-conditions for agreeing on a second commitment period, particularly on the issues of “comparable efforts.” Bolivia said moving from the Kyoto Protocol to a pledge-and-review system by developed countries without any binding international agreement is not acceptable.
With SAMOA, he commented that there was overlap between the objectives and functions sections and these two would have to be fully consistent with each other.
 This issue (FCCC/SBI/2012/3-5, FCCC/SBI/2012/Misc.4 and FCCC/CP/2011/7/Add.2), was considered by the SBI plenary on 14 May and in informal consultations, facilitated by Tony Carritt (EU).
The G-77/CHINA highlighted collaborative development of technology.
SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to consider the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report in 2014, with NEW ZEALAND cautioning against encouraging “fireworks” of reviews and duplication of work.
THAILAND urged consideration of the socio-economic impacts of mitigation activities on the food security and livelihoods of small farmers in particular.
Maldives, for AOSIS, identified ways to enhance action, including: making better use of existing institutions; exploring new multilateral avenues for action; and establishing enduring institutional support for high-level engagement.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the importance of LULUCF accounting, calling for consolidating detailed rules under the Convention.
FRANCE supported the EU and emphasized the need not to delay until the end of the process to embark upon negotiations.
The G-77/CHINA opposed proposals unifying mitigation in Annex I and non-Annex I parties.
  The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by the US, proposed a contact group to consider procedural issues related to the Standing Committee and other institutions, as well as nominations to those institutions.
On the Committee’s independent experts, NEW ZEALAND and the EU noted that privileges and immunities are also considered under the SBI.
Regarding future actions, he said it would commit itself to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 levels by 2020 if all developed countries committed themselves to further reductions, and the EU committed itself to emissions reductions of about 30%.
SENEGAL highlighted the importance of an attractive carbon price, and BURKINA FASO stated that sink projects are attractive only if the carbon price is at the level of at least US$ 20.
On support, one developing country party requested “a concrete roadmap” be inserted for achieving the US$100 billion goal.
The EU recommended the inclusion of backward- and forward-looking elements.
 \t\tInternational Meeting to Review the Implementation of the \t\tProgramme of Action for the Sustainable Development of SIDS:
The EU emphasized experience sharing and information exchange, identifying opportunities for cooperation and contributing to the assessment of demonstrable progress.
SWITZERLAND said EITs should have access to the Fund.
On  , the Maldives, for the G-77/China, underscored that adaptation is critical for all developing countries.
The final agreement \t\twas for an overall core programme budget of US$53,501,583, which \t\tincludes US$2,037,020 in contributions from the host country and \t\tUS$2,000,000 in carry-over.
On comparability, the EU said countries should provide information on the type and scope of commitments, and the sectors covered, as well as quantitative commitments and the assumptions behind indicators used.
PERU emphasized the importance of a second commitment period for preserving a rules-based system, rather than a system based on pledge-and-review.
 The FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA underscored difficulties in ensuring continuous GHG measurement, given a lack of consistent data flows, and in developing a domestic MRV system.
Maldives, for AOSIS, underscored the need for adequate space to consider interlinkages and cross-cutting issues.
CUBA, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Malaysia, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, underscored the need to apply the CBDR principle and stated that a decision on this issue must await a decision on financial support.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a five-year commitment period; Annex I parties moving to the top end of their pledges and beyond, and dropping their conditionalities; provisional application of the Protocol amendments to be adopted in Doha; and limiting participation in the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments under the second commitment period.
The EU said \t\tthe Chair 92s list could be useful in framing the work and identified \t\t 93what 94 and 93where 94 as the key procedural questions.
The US, supported by JAPAN and HUNGARY, proposed, on the linkage between the FCCC articles and the Protocol provisions, replacing a reference to "a joint approach to consideration of the issues" with a reference to an amendment to the provisional agenda item under which the Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 were placed in parentheses.
Following discussion, the original conclusions were adopted, with the EU expressing reluctance in doing so.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed deleting a “protocol” as a possible way of establishing an MCP.
 c2 a0Colombia, for AILAC, highlighted the need for progress on Agreement Article 6, especially with regards to double counting, review provisions, and environmental integrity.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed capacity building for developing countries.
NORWAY described the Oslo Forest Climate Conference in May 2010 where a non-binding REDD+ partnership was established that helps coordinate action on REDD and is consistent with UNFCCC negotiations.
BRAZIL emphasized that the group does not have a mandate to amend Annex A of the Protocol.
The US appreciated Yemen’s proposal, and suggested language “working in an inclusive and transparent manner in accordance with procedures of the UN.” Saudi Arabia, proposed two options: that “the AWG-LCA agreed to continue in strict adherence to inclusiveness” or deleting the paragraph.
However, Japan, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Barbados, the EU, Ghana and Australia supported the establishment of the shared vision contact group maintaining that this had been agreed at AWG-LCA 3.
On "questions of implementation," the US, G-77/China, Brazil and India opposed Japan 92s proposal to limit this concept to the mandatory requirements of the guidelines under Articles 5.1 (national systems) and 7.2 (supplementary information).
TURKEY underscored that international and regional organizations, as well as NGOs, can also provide support.
The US said it is not "rights" but "assigned amounts" that are discussed in the Protocol, and that the emissions and allocations of non-Annex I Parties will only be addressed in the longer term when they participate.
BRAZIL, supported by the EU and US, suggested Article 4.10 (common timeframes) be housed in the SBI and Article 12 (education, training and public awareness) in the SBI or SBSTA.
Slovenia, the Russian Federation, Maldives, Peru and others opposed such a reference, while the US, supported by Canada, suggested using “family relationship” to capture the concepts of “spouse and minor children” as written in the original version of the Task Group proposal.
TANZANIA highlighted the role of REDD as an incentive to local communities to continue mitigation activities.
Spain, for the EU, stated that the EU’s emissions in 2008 decreased domestically by 11.3% compared to 1990 levels and welcomed advances made on key elements such as adaptation, finance, national communications and Convention Article 6.
ARGENTINA proposed a new subsidiary body on technology issues under the Convention, which would include a strategic planning committee, technical panels focused on different sectors, and a verification group.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and SAUDI ARABIA advocated participation of ministers and heads of delegation.
KUWAIT emphasized his country’s efforts to reduce the effects of climate change and financially support projects in other developing countries.
The EU said the fact that large portions of the text, including on new market mechanisms and consequential Protocol amendments, have not yet been discussed was “very, very worrying.” Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, supported discussions of the text on consequential Protocol amendments.
He also discussed the EU’s decision to include aviation emissions in the EU ETS from 2012 onwards, saying airlines from more than 100 developing countries were excluded through the de minimis requirement and underscoring the “small impact” on the cost of air travel.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS with the SUDAN, the GAMBIA, AOSIS and CHINA said the process had to be country driven rather than agency driven and must follow the guidance of the COP.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, called for: a stricter compliance regime; clear comparability of efforts; and consideration of limits to offsetting.
The Cook Islands, for the AOSIS, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, supported the Co-Chairs taking lead on identifying further areas for streamlining.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested convening a stocktaking session on Thursday before making a decision.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the process launched under the Durban platform should result in a new protocol under the Convention that strengthens the rules-based and legally-binding regime.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for discussions in Panama to lay the basis for a balanced and legally-binding outcome in Durban.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that a second commitment period is the cornerstone of a successful outcome.
AUSTRALIA welcomed discussion of institutional arrangements for capacity building.
AOSIS discussed its proposal for possible elements for an LBI.
In response to a query by the UK, Lee noted that no member had ever been found to have a COI, but that if one were suspected, the Committee would exercise due diligence to determine whether a COI existed and arrive at a unanimous decision on what to do.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, with TANZANIA, suggested starting with institutional arrangements and means of implementation, while the EU warned this could lead to “getting stuck” in circular discussions.
Regarding local, regional and international approaches presented, the UK advocated identifying strengths, roles and responsibilities of each approach.
On facilitative consequences, the G-77/CHINA reiterated that these should be differentiated between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
 AUSTRALIA said success will be enhanced by recognizing country circumstances.
Dominica, for the G-77/CHINA, introduced their draft text which is divided into a preamble, recommendations to be considered for the Doha Work Programme, the role of the Secretariat and intergovernmental organizations.
Honduras, for SICA, expressed “deep concern” over delays concerning the second commitment period under the Protocol, stressing the need for urgent progress.
The EU and the US suggested the end of the review.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by BHUTAN, the US and NORWAY, opposed by BRAZIL, suggested the Secretariat could prepare a paper as input to the workshop.
The US reiterated that purpose should be reflected in the respective parts of the agreement, preferring no text for this article.
The EU called for a process to deliver a new global, comprehensive and legally-binding framework, to be completed by 2015.
On paragraph 69, addressing elements the review should take into account, a developing country group proposed using impacts on LDCs and small island developing states (SIDS) as key benchmarks for assessing adequacy of the long-term goal.
BOTSWANA, with Angola, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of funding capacity building to undertake MRV.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), commended the new negotiating text, highlighting that it brings together issues that were close to conclusion at COP 15.
NORWAY stressed that the SCCF should be complementary to the GEF and other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
The US and EU noted that several of the points in the paper are already addressed in the draft work programme.
 Malta outlined its proposal to join Annex I (FCCC/CP/2009/2), noting that by joining the EU in 2004 it has taken on responsibilities in line with those of Annex I parties.
Regarding a compilation and synthesis of information from national communications from small island developing States (SIDS) with a focus on adaptation and mitigation, NIUE and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA, and EU, urged retaining this as a separate synthesis document.
The G-77/CHINA said the text should refer only to Annex I Parties and should not directly or indirectly encourage non-Annex I Parties to share information.
CROATIA underscored that such a restrictive approach is the reason Croatia finds itself in the difficult situation and that referring the case back to the Enforcement Branch would not lead to a fair and just outcome.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, discussed the need for: information on spillover effects; efforts that avoid and reduce negative consequences; and measures that enhance resilience.
On emissions trading, the G-77/CHINA said all listed items required amendments to the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU supported a multilateral, rules-based, legally-binding treaty.
NEPAL said that despite his country 92s insignificant contribution to climate change, efforts toward mitigating emissions are underway.
UGANDA warned against giving \t\tan impression that the carbon market would ef bf bdfix both adaptation and \t\tmitigation ef bf bd and stressed that experiences with the \t\tCDM demonstrate that \t\tthis will not be the case.
The US noted that many mitigation challenges were in fact investment opportunities and highlighted the ten-fold increase in funding to vulnerable countries by the US Congress.
CANADA said the discussions would allow more effective use of scarce time and resources and, with the EU, said it would provide an opportunity for "mutual learning."
FRANCE recognized the work of the IPCC Third Assessment Report (TAR) as pivotal to the UNFCCC process.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted existing remedies and other international organizations for pursuing negative impacts of subsidies.
THAILAND, supported by the LDCs and SOUTH AFRICA, proposed referring this question to legal experts, with SOUTH AFRICA adding that the timing of entry into force was not a purely legal matter.
The EU said implementation of Article 4.6 must not undermine the integrity of the Protocol, and Uganda cautioned that a decision would set a precedent.
 \t\tDENMARK and POLAND expressed willingness \t\tto host a future COP and \t\t \t\t \t\t \t\tCOP/MOP.
Opposed by many Parties, the EU proposed consideration of \t\t 93elements of a future work programme 94 at SBSTA-23.
MALAYSIA recognized Article 5 as a basic building block for the Convention and urged the SBSTA to take the lead in implementation.
AOSIS proposed organizing workshops between SB 35 and 37 on: impacts of severe weather events; risk management; and rehabilitation associated with slow onset events.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the \t\tcomplimentary roles of adaptation and mitigation.
NEW ZEALAND called for ensuring the agreement delivers effective outcomes.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for further work on ambition of targets and development of a common accounting framework to ensure comparability of mitigation efforts.
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the Protocol as a central part of the climate change architecture and emphasized that its institutions must be reaffirmed and strengthened the COP/MOP through ambitious emission reduction targets for the second and subsequent commitment periods, consistent with the science.
The NETHERLANDS noted that the SBSTA refers to the G-77/China document as the basis for adoption, whereas this proposal refers to it as the basis for implementation.
SLOVENIA emphasized the importance of longer term \t\tpredictability to industry.
The G-77/CHINA called the framework a “foundation” that could include MRV and barriers.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said paragraph 2 was an attempt to reflect the SBSTA\'s consideration of the SAR and supported taking special note of the findings.
On the various options related to the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), the EU, Japan and the Federated States of Micronesia supported retaining the option related to the development of  , while Brazil, Argentina, China and others preferred not addressing the issue, therefore supporting the option “no decision.”
JAPAN called for clarity on the relationship between the process of recognizing efforts of developing countries and communications guidance.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), called for decisions on the framework for various approaches and new market-based mechanisms to establish a pilot phase at COP 19.
MEXICO, INDONESIA and INDIA suggested creating a multilateral fund under the Convention with foreseeable and scalable contributions by developed countries and a transparent and inclusive governance structure.
GRENADA emphasized that flexibility allowed for “differentiated participation,” and that “ambitious adaptation” is the path that brings climate change and sustainable development together.
Informal consultations on the issue were subsequently conducted by Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK).
On the provisional agenda for COP-6, the US, the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia said the proposed new sub-item on policies and measures should await SBSTA 92s consideration.
QATAR, TOGO, CUBA, THAILAND and UGANDA supported the G-77/China.
AUSTRALIA supported the Secretariat\'s proposal to include examples of national circumstances in the second compilation.
On ways to increase regional and international cooperation, participants recognized that CARICOM and the EU offered good examples of successful cooperation and recommended creating regional centers where they do not exist and reinforcing existing ones.
The G-77/CHINA noted a lack \t\tof clarity regarding an end date for the AWG 92s work.
The PHILIPPINES said statements on safeguards should be general principles and not mandatory for implementation.
Supported by CANADA and the US, he opposed quantitative ceilings for reductions achieved through the flexibility mechanisms, noting that there was no ceiling on transfers of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 4 ("bubble").
On the Umbrella Group 92s funding proposal and the alternative put forward by the EU, he said they represent a step forward but still require more negotiation.
TUVALU, with NEW ZEALAND, Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and others, said greatest consideration should be paid to spillover effects on poorer countries.
The US called for GHG emissions significantly below 1990 levels and policies beyond no-regrets actions.
The US highlighted adaptive capacity.
On scope, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and the AFRICAN GROUP drew attention to Decision 2/CP.17 (Outcome of the work of the AWG-LCA), which stipulates that parties will continue working on the scope of the Review and consider its further definition.
BARBADOS supported Option C. The US said his own preference would be similar to the Australian proposal.
BRAZIL \t\tnoted the importance of positive incentives for developing countries to \t\tadopt mitigation plans, and said common but differentiated \t\tresponsibilities do not imply an absence of responsibilities.
PERU highlighted the usefulness of regional discussions on CDM.
On the chapeau, the US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed deleting reference to specific provisions of the UNFCCC.
Burkina Faso expressed concerns that the US$405,000 allocated for second communications using the expedited process should be a flexible rather than a fixed amount, and Nigeria questioned whether this level of funding would be adequate for every country.
TUVALU said that lack of institutional capacity could affect \t\timplementation of adaptation plans.
For all this work and its efforts to “build up and disseminate greater knowledge about manmade climate change, and to lay the foundations that are needed to counteract such change,” the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice President Al Gore, in December 2007.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, suggested that the draft operational strategy focus on adaptation measures in light of Decision 11 of COP 1.
The EU supported the draft decision but suggested that rule 22 was already agreed.
JAPAN noted that the process should only involve a limited number of Parties, otherwise the SBI should be involved.
The US said that non-Annex I national commu adnications should be submitted no more than four years after the submission of their initial communications.
CHILE stated that a differentiation of commitments should be made clear in the body of the protocol rather than in an annex, and said an annex could cover quantification.
EGYPT underlined adaptation \t\tto response measures.
On \t\tdefinitions, discussion centered on whether Bureau members are countries \t\tor persons, with SWITZERLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION favoring \t\treference to countries, while HUNGARY, CANADA, BELGIUM, the NETHERLANDS \t\tand SLOVENIA supported reference to persons.
Since many countries had expressed an interest in initiating second national communications, the EU said guidelines should be reviewed.
The EU, supported by ARGENTINA and BOLIVIA, said information provided by Parties for the inventory review could be used by the experts in preparing their countries 92 inventories, but should not be disclosed to a third party.
TANZANIA and MALI called for REDD methodologies to consider benefits for local communities.
AUSTRALIA said that its technology transfer efforts coincide with needs outlined by CHINA: environmentally sound, appropriate for users, driven by recipient countries, and involving hard and soft technology.
The EU commended the IPCC report and highlighted several specific findings.
AUSTRIA suggested separating the \t\tsection of the paragraph on scenario emissions from the section on \t\temissions amenable to capture.
SWITZERLAND supported the draft decision, but suggested amendments to the timeframe and scope of work.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed support for universal contributions, provided that there are net benefits for developing countries and developed countries continue to lead the efforts.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, observed markets are more related to the mitigation than the transparency section and recognized the potential to cluster: purpose of market mechanisms and principles for their use; accounting of market transfers; elaboration of further rules; and consistent use of estimation methodologies, adjustments and common metrics.
BRAZIL, PERU, CHILE, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, COSTA RICA, BOLIVIA, AUSTRALIA, the US, JAPAN, URUGUAY, CANADA, NORWAY and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP argued in favor of its inclusion, citing a variety of motivations and preconditions.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized the need to avoid duplication of efforts.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, suggested using the draft text proposed in Doha for discussions and urged, with TUVALU and TANZANIA, a focus on adaptation, not mitigation.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS said if the SBSTA transmits the IPCC reports without comments, it would insult the IPCC\'s integrity.
Opposed by JAPAN, he said that there must be a focus solely on fourth national communications.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, remarked that the draft did not adequately reflect AOSIS’ desire for Article 6 implementation to contribute to overall global mitigation.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for balance between action and support, and urged reasonable comparability across issues, “leaving no issue behind.” He noted that finance could “unlock” other issues, and called for upholding common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR-RC) in the outcome.
INDONESIA stressed MRV as a key element in the achievement of developed countries reduction objectives.
On a paragraph regarding communication of INDCs, BOLIVIA called for a framework to define fairness and equity in parties e2 80 99 efforts that are in line with the global emissions budget.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, called for consolidating the Kyoto Protocol foundation as part of the global climate change architecture.
The EU recalled that decision 5/CP.7 addresses Article 2.3.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES noted that the Chair’s text needs further refinement and amendments to become a strong outcome, based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
GEF has provided support to 85 climate change projects addressing the needs of 114 countries at a cost of US$63 million.
South Africa, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), supported by Sudan, for the African Group, lamented that the ADP Co-Chairs had not fulfilled their mandate to produce a balanced text.
JAPAN highlighted information exchange.
SWITZERLAND supported a comprehensive approach and reiterated his proposal for the prompt establishment of a “Committee of the Whole.”
URUGUAY, also for ARGENTINA and BRAZIL, urged addressing inter-linkages within APA items.
NORWAY called for either a new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol or a single binding agreement and stressed that work on LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms should go forward.
ARGENTINA suggested “different layers of accountability” are required for different NDC types.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA and INDIA, proposed Annex I parties communicate GHG emission limitations and commitments related to financial resources and technology transfer.
In elements for a draft COP/MOP-1 decision on this matter, the EU, SWITZERLAND and NORWAY disagreed over a US proposal, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA, to include text on ensuring that adjustment procedures are conservative so that Parties would not be unduly penalised.
The EU and AUSTRALIA maintained that Turkey should indicate willingness to undertake Protocol obligations under Article 10 before its deletion from the Annexes.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, AOSIS, KUWAIT and LIBYA, said that progress to date was insufficient and urged Parties to begin by examining the recommendations of the recent risk assessment and insurance workshops.
SENEGAL, NIGERIA and COLOMBIA expressed reservations on the completeness of the activities list.
SWEDEN underscored the importance of factoring in renewable energy sources in modeling.
Switzerland, for the EIG, acknowledged the progress made in Bonn and expressed commitment to further progress towards a successful outcome in Durban.
AOSIS and the EU said there is no need to have TEMs at all UNFCCC meetings, with AOSIS noting that quality, not quantity, is key.
The EU called for a Secretariat report on revisions proposed by Parties for consideration at SBSTA-9 and COP-5.
CANADA agreed with JAPAN and HUNGARY that further distribution of the guidelines and methodology was necessary.
The EU supported discussing elements of a balanced package for Durban.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted linkages between the AWGs and the need for cooperation.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), said the texts have elements “that we all like and do not like,” expressed support for the package and commended the President for rebuilding trust in the process.
JAPAN said that developing countries 92 judgment of what constitutes sustainable development should not be overruled by limiting the types of eligible activities under the CDM.
INDIA underscored the \t\tchallenge of making existing technologies appropriate for developing \t\tcountries.
JAPAN proposed deleting text suggesting mobilization of finance be e2 80 9cregularly scaled up.
The AOSIS amendment to paragraph (11) of the Chair\'s draft text on the SBSTA report on technologies adds a reference to the provision of conclusions and advice in accordance to the mandates of the subsidiary bodies and in response to the AGBM\'s schedule.
The EU stressed that it would not be possible to make faster progress on one workstream, while lamenting suspension of substantive work.
ARGENTINA called for the identification of options to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation.
The US and EU opposed a proposal by ARGENTINA in the SBI to clear text on national communications that the contact group had left bracketed.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said Annex I countries must reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2020 and, acknowledging Japan’s new pledge, urged other Annex I parties to step up their pledges.
 Referring to a sentence on adaptation experience accumulating across regions in the public and private sectors and within communities, Bolivia, supported by Chile and opposed by the EU, stressed the importance of adding reference to e2 80 9cindigenous and local knowledge systems and practices.
NORWAY disagreed and stressed that the world \t\tneeds to understand the extent to which new commitments address the \t\tproblem of climate change.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, opposed holding it in conjunction with the COP.
SWITZERLAND highlighted concerns with the problem of overselling, cautioned against relying solely on seller liability, and re-emphasized his support for units in surplus to plan.
The US and Australia said other processes, such as the G-8, the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Change (MEF) and the Pacific Islands Forum, could provide useful input into this process.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the US and the EU, suggested including the proposal as an option in the facilitator’s note.
Regarding compliance, the US supported effective and holistic MRV and facilitation, rather than a system based on consequences.
EGYPT said finance and technology support are the main motivators for developing countries.
Outlining their proposal, Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted, inter alia: their proposed expert group on capacity building; a plan of action for implementation of the capacity building framework; and performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the framework.
The GAMBIA supported linking financial penalties to a compliance fund.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the conclusion of the three REDD+ items and the rich sharing of information at the agricultural workshops, and expressed disappointment with the lack of a substantive conclusion on the 2013-2015 review.
The EU circulated a paper on preventing and resolving technical problems and discrepancies in the technical standards and reporting and review text.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted options to improve the aggregate level of ambition, including: removing the surplus built into 2020 pledges and excluding LULUCF credits exceeding BAU; removing AAU carry over from the first to the second commitment period; removing LULUCF crediting; and agreeing to move to the top of parties pledged ranges.
JAPAN opposed limiting the requirement to provide finance to Annex II parties.
Expressing disappointment that the contact group had not been able to agree on draft conclusions or “provide draft text to the COP,” the EU called on all parties to engage on the issue, noting that, for the most vulnerable countries “below 2 c2 b0C is not enough.”
BRAZIL \t\tand BURKINA FASO said project participants should determine choice of \t\tmonitoring guidelines, while the EU, SWITZERLAND, and CHILE supported \t\tGPG as an efficient and transparent basis for generic project \t\tmonitoring.
BOLIVIA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA, ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA and PAKISTAN urged openness, transparency and inclusiveness in the consultations, lamenting the lack of transparency so far.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION \t\tstressed the need for members to have government support given the \t\tintergovernmental nature of the IPCC.
1) was first addressed in the plenary on Friday and then in several meetings of a contact group co-chaired by Andrej Kranjc (Slovenia) and Jongikhaya Witi (South Africa), with Samuel Duffett (UK) as Rapporteur.
The GAMBIA proposed establishing a contact group to address issues relating to a legally-binding agreement.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, identified the need for an additional negotiating session before Doha to allow more time for the AWG-LCA to reach clear agreements, underlining the need for specific results.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for concrete figures from developed countries to finance adaptation programmes.
BOLIVIA highlighted that his country recently passed the “law of Mother Earth and integral development for living well,” which creates the Joint Mitigation and Adaptation Mechanism for the integral and sustainable management of forests.
Countries agreed to have a roundtable, as proposed by AILAC and the LMDCs, instead of workshops.
Germany, for the EU, expressed \t\t\tdisappointment that these discussions could not be concluded but \t\t\thighlighted the progress made in “recognizing the importance of an \t\t\teffective institutional arrangement, access to financing and \t\t\tsuitable indicators for monitoring and evaluating effectiveness to \t\t\tthe development, deployment, diffusion and transfer of \t\t\tenvironmentally sound technologies to developing countries.” \t\t\tAustralia, for the Umbrella Group, said the proposed multilateral \t\t\tfund on technology transfer, which has been advocated by developing \t\t\tcountries, is preventing consensus on this issue.
WGI Vice-Chair Carolina Vera (Argentina), supported by Canada, Germany, WGII Co-Chair Hans-Otto P c3 b6rtner (Germany), WGIII Co-Chair Jim Skea (UK), and WGI Co-Chair Val c3 a9rie Masson-Delmotte, suggested shifting Scholarship Fund resources to finance the involvement of post-doctorate students in drafting IPCC reports as chapter scientists.
VENEZUELA called for a special report rather than a technical paper.
The COOK ISLAND stated that Saudi Arabia had also participated in these discussions and that concessions had been made to accommodate their views.
The US said information sharing between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties would facilitate capacity-building and technology-transfer activities.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, and supported by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, recalled that COP will review the progress of the pilot phase of AIJ and urged the Secretariat to compile information on this topic before the next session.
BRAZIL proposed an \t\tadvisory group to support the Board.
ICELAND said access to LULUCF and offsets would be required before he could say with certainty whether their target of 15% below 1990 levels by 2020 could be increased.
The EU, inter alia, welcomed the multilateral assessment process, saying it had enhanced transparency and built trust.
CHINA noted little benefit from the carryover of surplus AAUs.
Norway, Australia, New Zealand, the US, the EU, Canada, Turkey, Papua New Guinea and Mexico, for the EIG, supported the creation of new market mechanisms.
 On “coverage,” the EU proposed covering CO2, CH4 and N2O and to add HFC, PFC and SF6 to the “basket” of gases by 2000.
On the form of the outcome, the US said she was not convinced that it should take the form of a COP decision at this stage.
 Bangladesh considered placement of the AOSIS draft protocol as timely.
DENMARK, with BELGIUM, called for easy access to graphs and tables in the final report, and asked that the translation of figure text be facilitated.
\t\tSWITZERLAND, with CHINA and DENMARK, requested the Co-Chairs provide an \t\topportunity for delegates to comment on the foreword, while AUSTRALIA \t\tproposed an informal discussion on the issue.
BOLIVIA called for including the 1.5 c2 b0C or 2 c2 b0C limit, and opposed addressing markets and land use.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, identified similarities between the proposals.
SAUDI ARABIA said complexity in other issues areas had not been given as a reason for deferring work.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for progress from developed countries on converting pledges to economy-wide emission reduction targets, and with the Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern with the lack of clear projections for mid-term financing.
 SOUTH AFRICA reported on informal consultations held in the run-up to Durban, emphasizing efforts to ensure transparency and inclusiveness.
BRAZIL expressed concern with language on independent review.
On Wednesday, 14 June, delegates held informal consultations on the Chair 92s text on capacity building in developing countries and heard submissions by the G-77/China, the US, EU and Canada.
The US accepted the proposed structure of one body with two branches and supported focus on commitments rather than on Parties.
 On Tuesday, delegates discussed, inter alia, Saudi Arabia’s suggestion to include a reference to CO2 “utilization” in this definition, with Switzerland highlighting interesting developments in this field, and the EU and the Netherlands cautioning that there is no guarantee that such utilization will lead to long-term removal.
Mexico, for the EIG, called for: a strong role for the IPCC and the scientific community in the Facilitative Dialogue and the GST; and substantial progress on technical issues on Article 6, with the participation of observers.
TUVALU, supported by DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO, expressed concerns over proposals to expand the CDM by relaxing additionality criteria, and highlighted environmental integrity and the need to accrue real, additional and verifiable emission reductions.
ZIMBABWE, for the drafting group, reported that Parties agreed to remove brackets from paragraph 2 (objective), which is to resolve questions regarding implementation of the FCCC.
The US said he did not see Article 4.1(c) (cooperation in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors) as a target-setting exercise, but supported reference to sectoral approaches in an agreed outcome.
The G-77/CHINA said the second review should be limited to that foreseen in Article 4; it would be logical to hold the next review at the same time as COP/MOP-2; and indicated flexibility on timing of subsequent reviews.
CHINA underscored the importance of agriculture for food security, poverty reduction and sustainable development, and with SOUTH AFRICA, indicated that adaptation is more important than mitigation in this sector.
TUVALU, supported by AOSIS, argued that this agenda item required formal consideration, and proposed suspending the COP until the issue is resolved.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions.
On the impacts of climate change on water resources and water resource management, ECUADOR highlighted the human right to water.
 Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Micronesia, Norway, Mauritius, Solomon Islands and Cuba preferred Alternative A, provided that paragraph (b) is deleted, and that protocols are considered matters of substance, which will be adopted by consensus or, as a last resort, a 2/3 majority vote.
TUVALU and GUYANA identified the need for parties to take ownership of the text.
CANADA called for time to consider the issue.
France, supported by the EU, requested reinserting reference to deep decarbonization, which Saudi Arabia opposed.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed that the mandate must be based on the Bali building blocks, and said any political statement or declaration that leaves “open” the legal form is unacceptable.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, proposed addressing Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 (adverse impacts) as a separate item on the agenda.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, proposed holding the workshop well in advance of COP-5 to ensure that participants will have time to fully benefit from the discussions.
SINGAPORE said enabling support for NAMAs was paramount.
NEW ZEALAND called for greater emphasis on a shared vision, and said there cannot be two separate and distinct visions under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA tracks.
BRAZIL noted that long-lived gases required the attention of the AGBM and hoped that consensus could be reached in this respect.
AUSTRIA called for distinguishing \t\tbetween large and small point sources, and suggested referring to \t\tprojections in the sentence on future emissions in developing countries.
On the base year, AUSTRALIA proposed having a package comprising 1990 as the base year together with other years as reference points.
On the preamble, SAUDI ARABIA requested including a reference to Convention Article 4.8 (effects of climate change and impact of response measures).
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for, inter alia: an increased pace of work on the transparency framework; recognizing linkages between robust accounting for use of ITMOs; and more time allocated for more technically complex items.
The G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN, stressed the need to ensure that those developing country participants interested in attending are sponsored.
 GERMANY stated that differentiation within the EU was not based on indicators, because indicators do not reflect political reality.
Finally, SOUTH AFRICA proposed, and many parties supported, text taking note of discussions held during SBI 33.
While commending work being undertaken, COLOMBIA said that this did not provide adequate reassurance that the US$100 billion target would be met.
Grenada, for AOSIS, identified priorities, such as: increasing the level of ambition in mitigation commitments; approving the modalities for the review of the global long-term goal; and shaping the architecture of the Green Climate Fund, the Adaptation Committee and the TEC.
The EU \t\tsaid the draft CRF should include guidance on requirements for national \t\tinventories.
The US highlighted high-level guidance from Copenhagen and noted that the application of the Convention’s principles evolves as the world changes.
On additional methodological issues for consideration by SBSTA, SWITZERLAND queried how the proposal by Brazil can be included under the Convention.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), urged parties to identify and focus on issues on which concrete decisions can be made in Cancun.
CANADA urged Parties to consider the workshop TORs.
Noting the importance of transparency, the G-77/CHINA, MEXICO and Malaysia, for the LMDCs, opposed by JAPAN, called for observers to be included.
The US asked Sanchez-Campos how ITDG mobilizes \t\tstakeholders.
JAPAN stated that there is a growing difference among developing country economies, suggesting that the “polluter pays” principle should also apply to major developing country emitters.
CHINA noted the costs and the inconsistent quality of workshops.
Others, including South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, raised concerns about using these documents as a basis for discussion.
The US cautioned against overly prescriptive guidelines.
INDIA, ALGERIA and CHINA highlighted the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
 \t\tOn future plans, GERMANY hoped the EU \t\twould reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, and said \t\tit would be willing to cut its own emissions by 40% by that time.
UGANDA, supported by AUSTRALIA, preferred discussing activities to be financed before the necessary institutional arrangements.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the importance of ambitious commitments by developed countries.
France, on behalf of the EU, supported using a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) as a form of institutional arrangement and agreed with the procedure for creating the agreement.
On biennial update reports, the US said the Cancun Agreements set their frequency at every two years and the information should be consistent with national communications.
The EU suggested that all parties commit to adapt to climate change and cooperate to achieve climate resilient development.
AOSIS urged a process to discuss their proposed draft decision.
VENEZUELA said the IPCC should look at the social and economic consequences of a protocol or legal instrument of new commitments for Annex I countries and how new commitments can help avoid temperature and sea-level rise.
The EU highlighted: standardized baselines; understaffing of the Secretariat; terms of reference for CDM EB members; and the possibility of a full-time CDM EB chair.
94 JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA defined it as a living document that would go through several drafts.
Barbabos, for AOSIS, urged parties to be more constructive in discussions aimed at producing draft negotiating texts.
PAKISTAN supported incentives for technology patent holders and respect for IPR, taking into account flexibilities within the IPR regime.
Grenada, for AOSIS, urged more intensive and focused negotiations in August and expressed satisfaction with progress on finance.
The PHILIPPINES, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and others lamented lack of clarity on the means of implementation.
The US, supported by the EU, stressed institutional problems of ITAPs and said establishment of an ITAP should await completion of the evaluation report.
On the definition of "forest," the EU favored the FAO definition, with limited flexibility to consider national circumstances.
The US, MEXICO, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, NORWAY, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, the EU, ZAMBIA, JAPAN and others provided comments on, inter alia: long-term and global aspects of adaptation; commitments and contributions; monitoring and evaluation; sharing information, knowledge and lessons learned; and institutional arrangements.
MEXICO suggested the development of assessment criteria, and, opposed by UGANDA, suggested a step-by-step process for identifying spillover effects.
Japan, the UK and others stressed the \t\t\timportance of keeping the mitigation sentence.
This approach to consolidation was welcomed by AOSIS, MEXICO, NORWAY and the EU, but the EU stressed that further consideration of all the proposals would be needed.
The US proposed information sharing on cost-benefit analyses used to evaluate P&amp;Ms, and JAPAN highlighted the importance of national circumstances.
A number of developing countries, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the US, said the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities should apply.
ROSTER OF EXPERTS: The US said expansion of rosters should only be done in response to additional tasks.
VENEZUELA proposed deleting references to market mechanisms in the new agreement.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA called for the inclusion of REDD+.
Belgium, supported by the UK, Germany, Spain, Austria, Canada, and Ireland, opposed a footnote, arguing that the SPM should not contain this level of detail, and warning that the request for it bordered on interfering with the scientists’ mandated role to assess evidence in accordance with IPCC policies.
The US and AUSTRALIA objected to the inclusion of a reference already binding Parties to the inclusion of a list of options or a “menu” in the Chair’s draft conclusions.
China, the EU, Norway and Switzerland called for provisions against backsliding.
The EU, Colombia for AILAC, the US, and others supported a common framework, with flexibility regarding the timing and detail in the reporting, and with support to developing countries.
COLOMBIA and MEXICO, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized the need to consider sustainable development.
The EU said work towards an adaptation framework should not delay action.
Minister Auken said a separate EU proposal on financial issues had also been presented and that, based also on the proposal submitted by the Umbrella Group, there was substantial material on which to negotiate.
TUNISIA and \t\tthe US outlined national actions to address climate change.
JAPAN stressed that his country cannot accept a simple extension of the Kyoto Protocol without participation of Protocol non-parties and major developing countries, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed differentiating among developing countries and the reference to more advanced ones.
ARGENTINA stressed the importance of setting COP-4\'s priorities and suggested moving on those issues, such as the CDM, where consensus has been achieved.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA (BASIC), called for concrete outcomes from the facilitative dialogue on enhancing ambition and support and a concrete pathway toward US$100 billion in financial support by 2020.
BRAZIL suggested that the COP/MOP only take note of the compliance body report.
CHINA proposed a work programme on this item from COP 22.
 INDIA noted the need to take financial considerations into account in discussing methodologies.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported by AUSTRALIA, BARBADOS and CANADA, called for a focus on core issues rather than on principles.
Supporting Brazil, CHINA opposed the introduction of new concepts, saying diverting from the principles and provisions of the Convention makes progress difficult.
TUVALU noted the negative impacts of some biofuels, and GAMBIA drew attention to the current food crisis.
CANADA, with SWITZERLAND, stressed the prioritization of guidance to the Fund.
The EU also raised the \t\tpossibility of expanding the flexible mechanisms.
AOSIS expressed “incomprehension of objections” to compiling peer-reviewed scientific studies, but noted that “limited opposition” to the proposal “holds the promise of common consensus.” BOLIVIA regretted lack of agreement to analyze the 1°C target.
AUSTRALIA opposed including textual reference to sustainable development specifically for LULUCF.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the IPCC should continue as the primary body providing independent assessments, reviewing published literature and developing methodologies and guidelines.
 \t\tAustralia, on behalf of the Umbrella Group (a loose coalition of \t\tnon-European Union (EU) developed countries), called for a comprehensive \t\tglobal agreement including a long-term aspirational goal to which all \t\tcan contribute.
MEXICO outlined its proposal for a green fund compatible with existing UNFCCC funds.
The EU also introduced its draft proposal that sought to stop the non-credited pilot phase and start an AIJ phase with possible crediting, subject to decision-making in the negotiation on the mechanisms.
JAPAN said his country would announce a mid-term target in June.
ZIMBABWE did not anticipate a final resolution of issues surrounding flexibility mechanisms at COP-4.
The G-77/CHINA stated that the extent of developing country mitigation actions would be dependent on the level of support offered by developed countries.
SAUDI ARABIA rejected the Chair 92s proposal to establish a Friends of the Chair group to develop compromise text, and threatened to withdraw support for a similar proposal in the contact group on mechanisms.
The US highlighted the possibility of a hybrid of the Bangladesh model with an in-country institution coordinating project development and applications for assistance from the CTC.
Honduras, for SICA, reaffirmed adaptation as the main priority, requesting serious advancement during the next negotiating session to ensure actions and results that favor reduction of vulnerability in their region.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile and Costa Rica, said international legal personality was sufficiently provided for in the governing instrument.
TUVALU suggested considering financial instruments as a tool to fund REDD.
\t\tSaudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, insisted that these are separate \t\titems.
IRAN supported the candidacy of the Research Institute for Petroleum Industries (Iran) to host the CTC.
He supported Option C. CANADA said Option C does not cover conservation of currently managed forests or agrarian practices and provides no incentive for biodiversity.
The EU said the baselines should be determined on a project-by-project basis.
Stating that, in terms of the UNFCCC, adaptation is the priority, AOSIS underlined, inter alia, the need for building capacity, addressing insurance challenges, and improving access to funding.
The G-77/CHINA and the US supported deletion of a paragraph noting the difficulty in distinguishing between natural and human-induced climate change.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested text referencing FCCC Article 4.6 (flexibility for EITs).
COLOMBIA said the GEF would need to work through agencies with on-the-ground experience and through one or two core programmes to ensure funds can be accessed quickly.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and KENYA emphasized differentiation of information, especially for the most vulnerable.
GUYANA underlined the need for urgent action on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) and for simplifying access to technology transfer and to Global Environmental Facility funding.
AOSIS said the avoidance of climate change impacts in small \t\tisland states should be a benchmark for the post-2012 agreement.
Opposed by INDIA, Grenada, for AOSIS, called for continuing discussions on the legal form in the contact group.
JAPAN highlighted the need for a long-term goal for all parties and the importance of referring to global peaking, low-carbon development strategies and development of innovative technologies.
 The US recognized that the secretariat should coordinate work on developing methodologies but should not undertake the work itself.
 \t\t\tParties \t\t\tconsidered a list of six functions a new body could carry out, \t\t\tincluding: analyzing and identifying ways and means to facilitate \t\t\ttechnology transfer activities; overseeing implementation of \t\t\ttechnology needs assessment results; developing performance \t\t\tindicators; developing short, medium and long term strategies, \t\t\tespecially for Africa and SIDS; assessing existing strategies; and \t\t\tproposing a multi-year programme of work.
AOSIS called for using the practice established for the Kyoto Protocol, whereby observer parties were able to fully participate in discussions, but not in decision making.
BOLIVIA lamented that the text lacked adequate options on: a target of 1 or 1.5°C or lower; human rights; indigenous peoples; impact of war and war industries on climate change; and rights of Mother Earth.
The US stressed the need to have effective accountability.
 The US asked: whether developed countries that export fossil fuel or suffer from increased oil prices are eligible for compensation; whether developers of solar power are liable for injury; and whether developed countries that take action to prevent damage in developing countries are also liable under this proposal.
The EU, supported by INDIA, questioned the usefulness of the exercise, stressing the proposals e2 80 99 different purposes.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted linkages with other issues, including transparency and the global stocktake, and called for examining definitions.
The \t\tG-77/CHINA, AFRICA GROUP and others called for a concrete work plan and \t\ttimetable.
The G-77/CHINA said funding additionality flows from the fact that the purpose of the CDM is to assist Annex I Parties in attaining their commitments
Opposing this, the EU, with JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION urged adopting the GPG for both the UNFCCC and the Protocol in order to prepare national inventories in time for implementation.
COLOMBIA, PANAMA, and others suggested including a “place mark” to allow for discussion of REDD in the future.
Argentina, Fiji, Colombia, Mauritius, Chile, Malaysia and Bolivia supported the AOSIS protocol.
INDIA said reduction targets must be set before flexible policies and measures can be devised.
Clean Development Mechanism: On the project cycle of the CDM, the G-77/CHINA stressed the need to address the CDM 92s driving force, nature and scope.
IRAN said renewable energy sources have only a limited capacity to compensate for conventional sources.
The US lauded the forum for informing governments’ macroeconomic policies, investments in infrastructure and people, and improvements in business climates.
CHILE, supported by the US, stated that, while the facilitated groups may advance at different speeds, they shared the common purpose of making the Geneva text more workable.
The PHILIPPINES urged implementation and said the EGTT already fulfills that advisory role, and GHANA noted that an advisory group is similar to the expert panels proposed by the G-77/China.
Brazil and AOSIS warned against e2 80 9cministerial fatigue.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized the need to “leave no PAWP agenda item behind,” and to change the mode of work in discussions on accounting of financial resources.
The EU reiterated that the Berlin Mandate precludes new developing countries commitments and underscored that developed countries must lead by adopting legally binding commitments in Kyoto.
INDIA identified similar commitments by all developed countries, including non-Kyoto parties, as a precondition for developing country action.
\t\tResponding to the EU, Haites explained that enlarging the carbon market \t\tcould be one possibility to address adaptation.
Underlining work achieved in Lima as essential for the adoption of the 2015 agreement in Paris, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, stated the agreement must treat the elements of mitigation, adaptation, MOI, and transparency of action and support, in a balanced manner and on an equal footing.
PERU, BRAZIL and PAPUA NEW GUINEA stressed the need to preserve the integrity of the Protocol and the importance of emissions reductions in Annex I countries.
The G-77/CHINA maintained its support for text on actions relating to the workshop 92s results that could be recommended by the SBI and SBSTA.
 CHINA asked whether the SAR\'s impact assessments were based on the latest projections of mean global surface temperature increase or earlier, higher projections.
SAUDI ARABIA said Annex I Parties should present their financial commitments during the high-level meeting on Tuesday morning.
SAUDI ARABIA preferred "considerable uncertainties" regarding response measures and proposed merging effects and impacts in one paragraph.
  Mohamed Hamel, OPEC, presented on the results of a quantitative assessment of adverse impacts of response measures on petroleum-exporting developing countries.
The United Kingdom, on behalf of the European Union (EU), \t\tcalled for an 93open mind 94 and 93creative and innovative ways 94 to address \t\tclimate change after 2012.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA reiterated their disappointment, underscoring the need to amend the Convention to allow voting as a means of last resort so that progress cannot be “consistently blocked by one party.” BOLIVIA noted that they would continue to seek consensus on the inclusion of the proposed agenda item on the rights of nature and the integrity of ecosystems.
The US, supported by Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands and Germany, opposed this approach, and said that countries, not individuals, should be selected for each group and then each group would elect its Chairs, as it is a government-driven process.
With SOUTH AFRICA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, he stressed the need to include the objective of "making the climate whole."
Noting its proposal in the annex on impact assessments, AOSIS said host countries of A&amp;R CDM projects and the country acquiring CERs should ensure environmental integrity of the Protocol.
AOSIS and others questioned the value of expanding the scope of the Review.
JAPAN said discussions were premature as the issue would be contingent on the outcome of the AWGs.
Iran, for the LMDCs, Chile, for AILAC, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and NEW ZEALAND stressed the link to countries’ capacity to implement their commitments.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized consideration of countries’ different capacities.
Fekadu Beyene, Commissioner, Environment, Forest and Climate Change Commission, Ethiopia, called on developed countries to contribute to the LDC Fund and Adaptation Fund, which he described as “critically under-resourced.”
TANZANIA noted some inconsistencies with consolidated paragraphs and those in the original document.
BOLIVIA called for an operational link to the CDM.
 This item (FCCC/SBI/2016/10, MISC.2 and MISC.2/Add.1) was first considered on Monday, 7 November, and subsequently discussed in informal consultations co-facilitated by Winfred Lichima (Kenya) and Martin Hession (EU).
AUSTRALIA said LULUCF and carbon capture and storage (CCS) should be reflected fully in the post-2012 framework.
Spain, for the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, and AOSIS requested that the Secretariat compile information on developed country pledges.
INDIA, ZAMBIA and others urged the COP/MOP to provide a signal to the CDM market regarding the continuation of the CDM by establishing a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
During discussions in an informal facilitated discussion group co-facilitated by Tosi Mpanu Mpanu (Democratic Republic of the Congo) and Artur Runge-Metzger (EU), delegates made some progress in consolidating the text on general provisions, commitments and institutional arrangements.
JAPAN highlighted the Financing for Development process, which includes mobilizing private finance.
MEXICO noted it will play its fair part in achieving a global goal without jeopardizing its development.
On the section on Framing issues (Chapters 2-5), the UK, supported by Germany, suggested the framing issues be more practical and renamed “concepts and analytical approaches.” Switzerland emphasized that the chapters on ethics and sustainability should provide disaggregated information, which should be carried through as a methodology in the chapters on sectors and trends.
 JAPAN said that policies and measures should be cost effective, and that the measures should be implemented within a time frame that allows economic development to proceed in a sustainable manner.
INDIA supported recording NAMAs seeking international support in a registry, stressed that voluntary mitigation actions should be subject to domestic MRV and said all MRV guidelines, whether for supported or unsupported NAMAs, should be subject to the COP through the SBI.
Emphasizing that the focus should be on issues rather than text, CHINA stressed that the mandate was not to streamline the documentation and create a negotiating text.
The EU said progress had been made in informal \t\t\tconsultations to identify “what we are aiming at in terms of the \t\t\tconstituted body.” The SBSTA draft conclusions were adopted, with \t\t\tthe bracketed COP decision in an annex.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for common understandings on specific information to be provided by “type of NDC.” Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for clarity on how the 2018 facilitative dialogue will be taken forward.
Together with the US, he noted that national communications of non-Annex I countries would be helpful in identifying technology needs and underscored the role of the private sector in furthering this sector.
EGYPT called for more incentives under the \t\t \t\tCDM, and removal of \t\tbarriers that have hindered participation and for non-commercial \t\ttechnology transfer.
Noting convergence on the issue, the US urged the Co-Chairs to allocate additional time to item 5.
He highlighted the EU’s objective of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990.
COLOMBIA and BRAZIL emphasized the need for a country-driven approach.
BELARUS noted the absence of reference to economies in transition.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA said parties should focus on amendment of Article 3.9 and consequential amendments, as well as options under option B that represent “sticky legal issues,” such as carryover of surplus AAUs, a possible review process for emission reduction targets and improvements to project-based mechanisms, such as share of proceeds.
CUBA called for a 35% reduction in Annex I emissions by 2020.
JAPAN responded that each Party should decide on its own and added that creating unnecessary bureaucracies would discourage Annex I Parties from entering into JI.
SWITZERLAND said it should enhance implementation of Article 4.5 by increasing the flow of environmentally-sound technologies.
The EU highlighted its proposal setting a ceiling on the use of the mechanisms, and urged the development of a revised negotiating text by COP-6.
 This issue was first taken up by the COP plenary on Wednesday, 9 December when Malta outlined its proposal to join Annex I (FCCC/CP/2009/2), noting that by joining the EU in 2004 it has taken on responsibilities in line with those of Annex I parties.
Under a proposal from the US and the EU, the first step would be to assess the extent to which managers and technicians in relevant sectors are aware of such technologies and processes, followed by the identification of sources and supplies.
SINGAPORE questioned the nature of legal obligations in the case of provisional application.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that there is no contradiction between ambition and equity, and that equity should be the “gateway to ambition.” He noted that ambition should also be multi-dimensional.
With SWITZERLAND and others, they reiterated their support for adopting the agenda as originally proposed by the Chair.
CANADA, supported by NORWAY, the UK, and US, stressed the need for strengthening references in the text to the country-driven approach, national circumstances and sustainable development.
The Panel agreed to include the UK’s proposal in the report of the session.
NORWAY identified the need to consider different emission scenarios, LULUCF, bunker fuels and CCS.
IRAN requested SAUDI ARABIA to join the consensus regarding the level of ambition of the JWG.
POLAND said that SBSTA should determine how scientific information may be utilized for the FCCC.
The US recalled climate discussions in the Security Council.
  When this issue was taken up by SBSTA on 30 November, the EU, supported by Saudi Arabia, said forests in exhaustion should be addressed through the REDD+ discussions under the AWG-LCA and LULUCF discussions under the AWG-KP.
The EU proposed setting a ceiling on the use of the mechanisms.
The EU called for clarity on questions requiring further work, with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, specifying the need for clarity on how to take stock of progress.
 \t\tThe US stressed the need to better link \t\tclimate goals with 93more immediate 94 socioeconomic goals in order to \t\tbroaden the 93coalition for action.
KUWAIT and EGYPT announced their imminent ratifications of \t\tthe Protocol.
On allocation of bunker emissions, AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to establish a policy framework and adopt the most suitable method of recording emissions.
TUVALU proposed a new principle referring to the non-eligibility under Article 3.4 of activities that convert native forests.
Nicaragua, for SICA, urged for a consistent approach to means of implementation (MOI) access.
JAPAN highlighted: public and private partnerships as key to enabling technology development; strict protection of intellectual property rights (IPRs); and a TEC serving as a high-level advisory body.
Noting that the Paris agreement must reflect equity and fairness, President Joko Widodo, Indonesia, called for progress on the mobilization of US$100 billion, noting that the commitment should be increased going forward.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, stressed operationalization of the Paris Agreement requires, inter alia: universal participation; implementation through adequate policies; incentivizing stakeholders for broad participation; and cooperation on MOI.
The EU identified the need for the ADP to move to a more concrete working mode, and called for discussions on incentives to come forward with new pledges.
GUYANA, supported by the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that the 2ºC target can only be achieved if REDD+ is part of the solution.
KUWAIT proposed requesting the IPCC to take note of country submissions, contained in FCCC/SBSTA/1997/Misc.2.
CANADA, JAPAN and NORWAY stressed the need to consider the review of Annex I reporting.
TUVALU emphasized that unlike the AWG-KP’s mandate, this agenda item relates to Protocol Article 20 under which any party may propose amendments.
SINGAPORE emphasized the need for an institutionalized mechanism to systematically address response measures.
The LMDCs, the EIG and the UMBRELLA GROUP supported targeted parties’ submissions, and AOSIS and Guatemala, for AILAC, called for submissions on areas of convergence and divergence.
The EU said a ceiling on the use of mechanisms has to be defined.
The EU said any agreement would be piecemeal because the number of parties willing to work on a “meaningful Kyoto Protocol” has declined.
ECUADOR urged addressing the impacts of climate change from a human rights perspective, and proposed that working groups meet twice a year until 2015 to develop recommendations.
Ecuador, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), underscored the importance of the Convention’s principles.
The US suggested this could address many of the concerns expressed in the group.
Several delegates, including NORWAY, the PHILIPPINES, the US and others, proposed workshops on issues related to finance.
ECUADOR expressed concern with the final outcome and worried that basic standards of multilateralism would be violated.
The meeting was adjourned at midnight following concerns expressed by the G-77/CHINA on availability of transportation facilities, as well as the limited capacities of a number of its smaller delegations.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group (a loose alliance of Annex I Parties that includes Canada, Australia, Japan, the Russian Federation, and New Zealand) did not join the consensus, with key issues of dispute including eligibility requirements and bankability under the mechanisms.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned that a review process in the middle of the commitment period could make ratification challenging, as legislators require a clear understanding of what they are agreeing to.
NIGERIA, supporting both the G-77 and China and Saudi Arabia, said that he would hold the Chair to his promise of reviewing sources of information.
The EU said his submission included a proposal to amend the Protocol in terms of surplus carry over of AAUs, inclusion of new market mechanisms, and the possible transference of the units generated under these mechanisms in a fungible manner.
The EU emphasized text in the Cancun Agreements identifying a connection between the provision of funds and the increased frequency of non-Annex I national communications.
JAPAN stressed looking at activities and initiatives undertaken outside the UNFCCC to determine how to encourage them and which ones will be effective for ambition, noting for example efforts to phase out HFCs, regional cooperation, and voluntary initiatives by industry.
The UK asked for an opportunity to discuss strategic planning for AR6 and, supported by Germany and Belgium, proposed addressing the future of the Task Group on Data and Scenario for Impact and Climate Analysis (TGICA) early to allow for a prompt initiation of work should the proposal for TGICA’s transformation be accepted.
JAPAN observed that oil prices have been rising regardless of FCCC-related measures.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for a technical paper summarizing and synthesizing INDCs and including an aggregation of the level of mitigation effort.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for public registries to provide accessible information on parties’ NDCs, and suggested linking the adaptation communications registry and NDC registries.
The US called for e2 80 9ca strategic use e2 80 9d of ministers e2 80 99 engagement, including in TEMs.
The AFRICAN GROUP and INDIA proposed deleting the cluster on plans and strategies, while AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN supported retaining it.
 The US noted that any expansion of the meeting time of the AGBM would have to be at the expense of other subsidiary bodies.
Expressing concern about future \t\tdemands on the IPCC, the UK described discussions with national IPCC \t\tscientists that have pointed to the need for synthesizing results across \t\tdisciplines and to consider communication of results from the outset.
Keynote speakers highlighted that: average 2012-2013 public finance flows to developing countries were US$41 billion; the recently released roadmap to US$100 billion shows developed countries are on track to meet or overshoot the goal, although a risk of undershooting remains; governments must strengthen the information architecture on climate risk and climate opportunity to shift private investment; cities, food security and ecosystem services are important areas for adaptation measures; and countries are eligible to receive US$3 million for NAP formulation through the GCF.
The drafting group also met in a late afternoon session to discuss an EU alternative proposal for the draft COP-7 decision.
On the relationship to the AIJ pilot phase, the US, supported by the EU, said that AIJ activities might be eligible for JI if they fulfill the rules and requirements set for such projects.
Switzerland, the US, and the EU called for a structure similar to that of the COP decision on the fifth review, with the US and the EU supporting consideration of highlighting some SCF recommendations.
WG I Co-Chair Val c3 a9rie Masson-Delmotte, supported by WG III Vice-Chair Diana c3 9crge-Vorsatz, China, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Germany, the UK, and the Bahamas, stressed the importance of having chapter scientists from developing countries, noting their status as early career researchers and the important capacity building that can be enabled by facilitating their participation in the IPCC.
ALGERIA, CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, IRAN, NICARAGUA, JORDAN, GABON and VENEZUELA called for direct negotiations with parties e2 80 99 texts on the screen.
COLOMBIA said that 30% of adaptation funding should be dedicated to disaster reduction and preparedness.
On sectoral approaches, INDIA, PAKISTAN and the PHILIPPINES reiterated that these approaches should be considered in the context of Convention Article 4.1(c) on the transfer of technologies.
The EU said all OECD countries should have stated commitments.
Mexico, for AILAC and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested that financial and technical support be made available to both countries and communities.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed adding a procedural paragraph that would list work to be done.
PERU said the Kyoto Protocol was a very delicate balance.
Regarding the organization of work, the US emphasized \t\tthe need for a clear separation between Convention and Protocol issues.
  The Secretariat introduced the item (FCCC/KP/CMP/2010/4), which relates to a proposal by Kazakhstan to amend the Kyoto Protocol to include Kazakhstan in Annex B. KAZAKHSTAN highlighted national efforts for transition to a low-carbon economy and development of a legal framework for a domestic cap-and-trade mechanism.
CANADA highlighted links between the AWG and AWGLCA and, with ARGENTINA, called for coordinating the processes.
The US and the EU emphasized that: developed countries have provided assurance that there will be no financing gap in 2012-20; a work programme on long-term finance has been established; and developed countries are fully committed to providing fast-start finance.
On the future review process, the US said the review process under the FCCC and the review of implementation under Article 8 of the Protocol are fundamentally different.
Spain, for the EU, highlighted their contribution of €45 million to the Fund.
PAKISTAN said elements should stem from the party-driven process rather than “exclusive consultations.” VENEZUELA, with SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that balance cannot be achieved without an outcome under the AWG-KP.
CANADA and the US did not agree.
Collective objectives for Annex I Parties could group emissions for all Annex I Parties or group emissions of OECD and non-OECD countries.
NORWAY added that including MOI needs could be relevant where developing countries present more ambitious actions that require international support.
e2 80 9d JAPAN stressed the need to clarify that mitigation is the ultimate goal of the Convention.
Referring to the almost identical paragraphs identified by the Secretariat, AUSTRALIA agreed to delete one of her country’s proposals from the mitigation section.
BRAZIL noted that there are several pathways to avoid warming of more than 2°C.
On GDP losses, the US requested \t\t\tto specify the range by replacing 93up to 5% 94 for 4 b0C of warming with \t\t\t 931-5% 94.
Responding to Grenada on how she intents to proceed with the proposal by AOSIS, Chair Mukahanana-Sangarwe said she would consult with the AWG-KP Chair on the potential for joint discussions.
Many expressed their hope that the Protocol would enter into force by the August 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), with the EU and Japan announcing their ratifications just prior to SB-16.
SAUDI ARABIA underscored the need to take immediate action, support developing countries in the technical development of non-energy uses of fossil fuels, and exchange information on win-win P&amp;Ms that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while minimizing adverse impacts on developing countries.
 \t\tThe EU, CENTRAL \t\tGROUP and ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported the agenda without \t\tamendments, while the AFRICA GROUP and AOSIS supported adding an item on \t\tcapacity building.
The US sought clarification on the funding increase requested for training inventory review experts.
The EU welcomed review and guidance ahead of the conclusion of the fifth replenishment, noting the review should provide the basis for progressively defining the role of the GEF in the architecture being defined under the AWG-LCA.
CANADA said the NWP should serve as a vehicle for adaptation and promote peer-to-peer knowledge transfer.
The EU placed it in brackets.
Carman then briefed participants on the GEF/UNDP/UNEP NCSP, one of the components of the strategy to support second national communications, with a budget of US$5.5 million.
With the UK, NEW ZEALAND and SOUTH AFRICA, he suggested changing the language on the last proposed objective to read: "to determine" and address non-compliance.
She said that unless the footnote was included, the US would request further discussion.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that commitments should not shift responsibility from developed to developing countries, nor encourage private over public support.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 welcomes the AFB resource mobilization strategy target of US$80 million per year in 2014 and 2015, and continues to encourage Annex I parties to provide funding to support this target, and to scale up funding from additional sources;
The EU said a strong compliance regime was a fundamental requirement and AOSIS highlighted the importance it attaches to this issue.
The EU emphasized the need for consistency between the AWGs and expressed preference for one comprehensive agreement from the processes.
OTHER PRESS BRIEFINGS:The G-77/China, the European Community (EC), Japan, the US and Canada were among those giving press briefings.
SWITZERLAND noted that scientific inputs would have to be assessed, and stressed that the IPCC is the body best suited for such assessments.
Acknowledging the importance of international climate finance to support implementation of NAMAs, the EU noted, inter alia, the need for countries to contribute their own finance.
SAUDI ARABIA said that targets for the second \t\tcommitment period should be limited to Annex B Parties, and should not \t\tinclude developing country Parties.
CANADA welcomed efforts to make TEMs more effective and engage subnational authorities, but cautioned that a web-based information portal could become unmanageable.
On paragraph 13 (outcome), GHANA, supported by the EU, proposed deleting "encouragement" from the elements to be included in conclusions and recommendations.
The upcoming negotiations should use the AOSIS protocol as the basis.
The AOSIS protocol would be a first step toward the AGBM’s goal.
INDIA said guidance must be simple, bottom-up and country driven.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated their support for creation of a mechanism on response measures.
The EU said more ambitious emissions reduction commitments than those agreed to at Kyoto were needed.
COLOMBIA, opposed by SAMOA, supported equal treatment of forestry in the CDM.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, lamented the lack of a clear outcome.
The AFRICAN GROUP, INDIA, NORWAY and others supported establishment of regional adaptation centers.
NORWAY, supported by AUSTRALIA, opposed “differentiated engagement,” saying defining criteria would be difficult.
On the definition of units, CANADA noted divergence on the concept of fungibility among the Protocol mechanisms.
The EU proposed to begin work on technology and finance in the first half of 2008.
The US cautioned against the Secretariat moving beyond its mandate in initiating work.
SAMOA expressed hope that the SCCF would fund community-based adaptation projects.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES presented on the role of the frameworks in providing a platform for transparency.
AUSTRALIA also stressed discussing support for the most vulnerable countries.
BRAZIL and INDIA expressed concern about the possible proliferation of bilateral mechanisms and, with CHINA, noted the value of the CDM.
A revised draft is being prepared following concerns expressed by the G-77/CHINA that the first document did not reflect outcomes of a workshop held on this issue in Montreal in June.
RUSSIA suggested exercising caution in approaching the experiences of other conventions, as the FCCC is unique.
 The PHILIPPINES said the G-77/China wanted to tailor a response to the SBI.
The US proposed that the new Bureau and Chair consider how to solicit the required resources and proposed approaching private philanthropic organizations.
SWITZERLAND highlighted four elements: clear understanding of land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF), market mechanisms and gases; implementation of the MRV package from Cancun; clear commitments; and reassurance that the AWG-LCA is moving towards a global, comprehensive and fair agreement.
The EU reiterated the need for maintaining the balance between the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA processes, saying they are not willing to accept an “unbalanced” outcome in Cancún.
TUVALU stressed that their aim was not to merge the Kyoto Protocol with a new instrument but to preserve the legal architecture including the Protocol.
The US proposed exploring the eligibility of AIJ projects under CDM or JI.
SWITZERLAND called for a COP mandate to assess and modify the financial mechanism as necessary.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested the technology framework provide guidance on technology assessments.
On text requesting the Secretariat to make available information on P&amp;Ms related to the future work on P&amp;Ms as reported in the national communications by Annex I Parties, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, JAPAN and CANADA, urged reference to information on P&amp;Ms implemented and planned "under the Convention and its Protocol."
At the close of SBSTA-5, a statement was made on behalf of the G-77/CHINA expressing concern about this recommendation.
TUVALU noted three options to prevent a gap: accelerating negotiations; amending the Protocol to make the provisions on the entry into force of amendments less onerous; and provisional application of amendments.
 The PHILIPPINES, UGANDA, INDIA, SWITZERLAND, MAURITIUS and the EU highlighted AIJ additionality to Annex II countries’ commitments.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA to deliver on a mandate to negotiate a parallel Protocol, to be completed by December 2012, that provides for comparable mitigation commitments for developed countries that do not have mitigation commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CANADA supported seller liability.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the importance of multilateral solutions and supported working through the IMO and ICAO while respecting the principles of the Convention and avoiding unilateral measures.
The US preferred not having a preamble, while the EU called for preambular discussion to be put to the side.
SOUTH AFRICA, for the G-77/CHINA, noted her preference for one body with two branches subject to certain conditions, including that: the enforcement branch apply only to Annex I countries; the composition of both branches reflect geographic distribution; and the branches have clearly delineated mandates.
The US also noted that he would make additional proposals if the proposals of the EU and CHINA were accepted.
On submission of questions to the compliance body, the G-77/CHINA said questions of compliance could be raised by a Party with respect to itself or another Party.
Regarding regional cooperation, COLOMBIA stressed the important role of regional institutions and the need to strengthen regional development banks.
AOSIS and the US expressed concern.
TANZANIA stressed the need for publicly-funded adaptation technologies.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a durable, fair and effective legally-binding outcome that includes mitigation contributions by all major emitters.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a process to strengthen emission reduction pledges communicated to the UNFCCC, while noting that recognition of pledges should not be used to undermine the AWG-KP track.
SAUDI ARABIA rejected compromise language on “significantly under-represented countries and areas.” He also opposed differentiating among countries that have fewer than ten CDM projects.
During the final plenary, the UK suggested the Panel consider ways for widening expert comments in the development of reports.
CHINA suggested the CMA then decide on measures to take based on the “facilitative measures” presented by the committee.
The President noted that the ratification status report (FCCC/ CP/1997/INF.2), indicating that 167 states and the EU had become Parties, showed the nearly universal recognition of the importance of climate change issues.
 In informal consultations, co-facilitated by Kelley Kizzier (EU), countries discussed the co-facilitators’ informal note.
CHINA underlined that there remains disagreement on the issue of unilateral or bilateral projects, and on the possible limited inclusion of sinks in the CDM.
The EU underscored the need for transparency on QELROs and, supported by St. Lucia, for AOSIS, proposed that countries make presentations on their QELROs submissions.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed that transparency of mitigation commitments must be as robust as those under the Kyoto Protocol and be understood before their adoption.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), supported a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol as part of a balanced and comprehensive outcome for Durban, saying the Cancun Agreements should be fully operationalized.
JAPAN called for a comprehensive framework to sustain the most vulnerable countries and supported establishing a knowledge network for adaptation.
The EU noted the differences in quality among the three options and, with Switzerland, for the EIG, said the document could contain all the elements outlined in the options.
On the \t\tissue of unminable coal, the UK proposed, and delegates agreed, to \t\tinsert a footnote explaining that if the coal was subsequently mined, \t\tcarbon dioxide would be released.
Informal consultations met throughout the week, co-facilitated by Xiang Gao (China) and Andrew Rakestraw (US).
NORWAY said the Expert Review Team (ERT) would only propose an adjustment, while the compliance body would adopt it.
The US, supported by Canada and Australia, proposed organizing workshops instead of a negotiating session.
The G-77/CHINA said other bodies were focusing on the first commitment period, while this one was dealing with the second.
The NETHERLANDS called for carbon pricing, redirecting investments from e2 80 9cbrown to green, e2 80 9d and highlighted activities of the Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance.
SPAIN reported on an informal meeting jointly organized with Mexico and South Africa to discuss the legal form of the AWG-LCA outcome.
The G-77/CHINA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted the need for additional negotiating time between Bonn and Doha while acknowledging financial constraints.
 The NETHERLANDS: Margaretha de Boer, Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment, said she is prepared for serious negotiations on a protocol to the FCCC.
Saudi Arabia, China and the US said the proposal was \t\tpremature given limited human and financial resources.
CHILE proposed that the IPCC \t\tdevelop methodology guidelines for the development of national emission \t\tscenarios, which would help developing countries.
BENIN said the text must address the fundamental concern of LDCs regarding limiting temperature increase to 1.5°C.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), highlighted the ADP as a turning point in the UNFCCC negotiations.
CHINA and MALAYSIA expressed concern regarding a reference to peer review of national communications and emissions trading.
On recognizing the important role of parliamentarians and legislators, and the value of their participation as observers in the UNFCCC process, the US opposed the reference to these individuals as observers.
ETHIOPIA emphasized MOI for developing countries.
France, on behalf of the EU, asked about the criteria for choosing the projects to be presented at the next GEF council meeting, and possible tools for GEF action on climate change.
JAPAN said the highlights should mention technical measures that accelerate technology diffusion and transfer.
Following discussion, the Chair invited the US to draft an interpretive statement for inclusion in the AG13 report, indicating that transparency should be understood as a reference to the overall process and outcome and not to the question of access to meetings.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and others, said its proposal should serve as the basis for the group 92s discussions.
The US expressed support for addressing adaptation concerns, but objected to limiting the focus of work on this issue.
SINGAPORE and JAPAN commended the progress made by ICAO and IMO.
The US and JAPAN recommended adoption of guidelines for national systems at COP-6.
The EU emphasized that adding entire classes of gases embodies the precautionary principle since it is difficult to predict which individual gases will become commercially important.
India, supported by Brazil, and opposed by the US, suggested compiling parties e2 80 99 submissions as the basis for a draft decision.
The final issue to be resolved was \t\ton regional distribution, with the EU conceding on an African Group \t\tproposal, after ministerial consultations, to insert language \t\tencouraging Annex I countries to engage in further initiatives, \t\tincluding financial support, for CDM projects in LDCs, Africa and SIDS, \t\twith a view to improving regional distribution.
MALAYSIA noted that the AGBM needed to set a clear course so as not to divert from the review of the adequacy of commitments for Annex I Parties.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for continuing the Protocol’s key elements, including quantified and legally-binding objectives, the flexibility mechanisms and a transparent monitoring system.
CHINA highlighted the need for continuity and simplicity and, with TUVALU and the EU, supported retaining 1990 as the base year.
The PHILIPPINES underlined historical responsibility.
The EU observed that the Marrakesh Accords took national circumstances into account, and Tuvalu noted that the proposal did not account for trade in unclean energy.
The UK proposed \t\t\talso addressing figures from the Stern Review estimating the social \t\t\tcost of carbon at US$85 per tonne, while Saudi Arabia indicated they \t\t\twould not discuss the text or the Stern Review in the plenary or a \t\t\tsmall group.
The AFRICAN GROUP said the selection of the GEF’s chairpersons and CEOs should reflect its global character.
PERU offered to host COP 16.
The EU said COP-5 had achieved results that will pave the way to COP-6.
BRAZIL said biofuel production was compatible with food production, reduced emissions, and supported sustainable development.
HUNGARY supported using a three-gas basket, and addressing the three additional gases later.
BRAZIL proposed highlighting the enhancement of national capabilities.
Chair Thorgeirsson requested Jim Penman (UK) and Brian Challenger (Antigua and Barbuda) to co-chair a contact group to discuss these issues.
 The Chair, supported by the US, proposed a reference to keeping the arrangements for the conference under review by the SBI.
The US said it would not hold up progress.
The EU drew attention, inter alia, to: the Adaptation Committee and the Standing Committee; and work on long-term finance and national adaptation plans.
On guidance on the mitigation section of decision 1/CP.21, Gabon, for the African Group, and Maldives for AOSIS, opposed references to the land sector and called for guidance to ensure environmental integrity and prevent double counting under Agreement Article 6 (cooperative approaches).
A number of countries, including the EU, the US and CANADA, stressed the importance of the CTI.
The G-77/CHINA said that leakage had both positive and negative impacts.
BANGLADESH explained there is no leeway and agreement must be: reached no later than 2015; applicable to all parties; rules-based, predictable, robust, bold, clear, enforceable and scientifically-sound; and take into account long-term perspectives, CBDR and equity, and loss and damage.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern around linking this item to the ADP, with SINGAPORE suggesting the draft decision would focus on pre-2020 measures.
The 19th BASIC Ministerial Meeting took place from 8-10 October 2014, in Sun City, South Africa.
SAUDI ARABIA and QATAR questioned the process through which the text originated.
The US highlighted flexibility of the existing mandate based on the Bali Action Plan and stated that his country is not in a position to accept a new mandate that focuses only on the legal form without stating clearly that major economies take on mitigation efforts with the same legal force as those by developed countries.
The US noted, inter alia, activities of the donor coordination group on climate finance and ongoing work to improve access to existing financial flows.
Colombia, for AILAC, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, the EU, NORWAY, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and others underlined the need for the new agreement to establish a compliance mechanism.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, regretted the limited availability of insurance tools.
On the  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, stated it should set out the “bigger picture,” including concepts such as historical responsibility, justice, equity and burden sharing, as well as the effective implementation of developed countries’ commitments.
On  , the US said the Cancun Agreements set their frequency at every two years and the information should be consistent with national communications.
 POLAND outlined the joint Polish and Peruvian initiative for a Ministerial Declaration on Education and Awareness Raising at COP 20.
The US called for a focus on commercial investment in cleaner technologies in developing countries and on assessments of needs.
CANADA suggested that the mechanism develop as other aspects of the Agreement evolve, and, with the EU, called for examining how the compliance regime will relate to other mechanisms under the Agreement.
The EU said there is no “dramatic difference” in the pace at which agenda items are advancing.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, accepted the text as a basis for discussion.
 The US said that the reporting process could be improved by increasing transparency, comparability and consistency through more specific guidelines.
On the mitigation workplan, the EU identified the process of closing the mitigation gap as an iterative one whereby the gap is assessed, options to increase ambition are identified and the appropriate decisions are taken.
The EU added that FCCC Article 3 (commitments) referred to "assigned amounts" not "initial assigned amounts".
ARGENTINA, with the PHILIPPINES and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern with the concept of a registry, and ALGERIA said that the idea of matching actions with support connotes uncertainty or delay.
Following informal consultations facilitated by President Pers e1nyi and Roger Cornforth (New Zealand), the COP adopted the conclusions on assessing the status of implementation of Article 4.9, and a decision on further guidance for the operation of the LDC Fund on Friday, 12 December.
Delegates also disagree on, inter alia, the nature of the applicable consequences, with the EU and small island developing Parties being the most strident in favor of strong penalties, and the relationship between the compliance body and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties.
 PALAU called for progress reports on the status of nominations of members of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage, and on the third review of the Adaptation Fund Board, lamenting these items are not on the SBI 42 agenda.
SWITZERLAND said that the TAR should be routinely considered in all agenda items and, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that future annotated agendas should reference the TAR.
He noted that the African Group had withdrawn their candidate and only the candidate nominated by GRULAC remained.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, urged establishing a second commitment period under the Protocol and opposed attempts by developed countries to “kill the Protocol” or supersede it with a new treaty.
On features of NDCs, parties proposed, among other things: elaboration of the features for each type of NDCs; clear, general, durable and simple guidance; and flexibility for LDCs.
The EU urged strengthening links between the climate change and WSSD processes and noted the need for schedules and a programme of action.
The US noted that this issue relates to inventories and suggested that it should be dealt with by the contact group on overarching mitigation issues.
The DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA stated that the GEF does not function efficiently and some projects took three years to get approved.
GHANA highlighted the importance of innovative mechanisms, incentives, and, with BRAZIL and others, North-South and South-South cooperation.
PAKISTAN called for transparency and clarity.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA stressed the need to retain capacity building as a distinct section.
NEW ZEALAND commented that the new instrument should pave the way for future global action, but MOROCCO and SAUDI ARABIA stated that action after COP-3 exceeds the Berlin Mandate.
The EU and SWITZERLAND emphasized the importance of historical data sets.
The EU, Papua New Guinea and Colombia called for consideration of the relationship of permanence and leakage with operational language.
The \t\tG-77/CHINA stressed the need for the financial mechanism to be fully \t\tresponsive to developing countries 92 needs, while the EU and AUSTRALIA \t\thighlighted the value of looking at all sources of funding for the \t\tConvention 92s implementation.
With those words, the debates that shaped agreement back in 1995 resurfaced, with an insistence on G-77/China involvement once again linked to the level of ambition acceptable by the US.
MOROCCO, supported by the UK, \t\tqueried how an observer organization might have its status revoked.
On   the global stocktake, the EU said form should flow from function, calling for a balanced process tailored to the different nature of mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
Sweden, for the EU, stressed that a new agreement should build on the Kyoto Protocol.
Text referring to LDCs was also left bracketed, as no outcome had been reached during the LDC consultations held Thursday.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that “no one is left behind,” while noting implementation of the Paris Agreement only applies to parties that have ratified it.
On technology transfer and project financing, the G-77/CHINA highlighted the dimension of additionality, a feature absent in the Chair’s draft.
MALAYSIA noted that the COP needed a mechanism to provide continuous inputs of scientific information.
The US said flexibility could only be discussed in the context of common procedures, and, with NORWAY, that it depends on each country’s capacity.
The G-77/CHINA said the assumption of a consensus on budgeting could be premature.
MALAYSIA and MEXICO sought consistency in policies between different environmental fora.
On first order problems, the US explained that annual reports include information on both inventories and the assigned amount and, opposed by the G-77/China, suggested that first-order problems only refer to the former.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported by CHINA, called for clarification on the means of implementation of FCCC Article 4.5, and on the responsibility and conditions for implementation.
JAMAICA identified gaps in reporting on capacity-building activities and said CTCN efforts are focused on building capacity to participate in the CTCN.
The UK, supported by others, asked for the process and timelines for the scoping process to be written and circulated to national focal points.
BRAZIL highlighted the possibility of streamlining several parts, such as principles and means of implementation, but said it would be difficult to streamline the section on institutional arrangements.
URUGUAY indicated that it had been able to submit its first national communication on GHG sources and sinks because of GEF financing.
 Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, urged a focus on quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs) for Annex I parties.
Norway, the US, Japan and New Zealand proposed that MRV should also apply to developing countries, taking into account to the differences between them.
SOUTH AFRICA said ratification has been slow and it has begun an inventory of internal emissions.
MALI called for support through regional workshops and a handbook on preparation and implementation of NAMAs for COP 18.
It was then considered in informal consultations facilitated by Erasmia Kitou (EU).
TUVALU proposed adding language stating that the new agreement was being adopted in the context of Convention Article 17 (protocols).
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for respecting the mandate of the Paris Agreement and for balanced, comprehensive, and robust guidance that “brings the Agreement to life.”
Delegates \t\taddressed the outstanding issues in an attempt to reach agreement on an \t\tentire 93package 94 that would include the Seminar proposal, the adaptation \t\twork programme, details on the LDC Fund and SCCF, and agreement on the \t\timplementation of decision 5/CP.7.
BOLIVIA noted that the EU’s presentation shows that the impact of the various options would be between -1.2% and -2%, stressed that this range is very small and said parties can discuss Annex I aggregate emission reductions, since the potential impacts of the various LULUCF options are known.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, stressed that developing countries able to provide capacity can do so voluntarily.
Switzerland, for the EIG, recognized positive interaction between delegates and expressed hope that the cooperative spirit will continue.
INDIA and others highlighted the importance of an expert group and noted connections with the SBI and AWG-LCA.
on behalf of AOSIS, and supported by Fiji, Mauritius, Micronesia, Papua New Guinea, Norway and the Republic of Korea, called for adoption of the AOSIS protocol.
INFORMATION ABOUT THE BASE YEAR \t\tOF KAZAKHSTAN
JAPAN said it is essential to allow each Party to choose policies and measures.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION OF RAINFOREST NATIONS, COSTA RICA and INDONESIA noted that a link to financing for a three-phased approach had been lost.
The EU described Cancun as a milestone but noted that there had not yet been a full discussion on the pledges in terms of what they mean, and what is behind them.
 The EU stressed, inter alia: the MA and FSV; review of the Technology Mechanism; improved response measures forum; and PCCB meeting.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said they expected all submissions by parties to be included in the negotiating text, and some countries, including SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, BRAZIL, BOLIVIA and INDIA, reiterated that the shared vision should be in the context of the BAP.
JAPAN proposed that all parties report their adaptation actions through a common reporting system.
Belgium, for the EUROPEAN UNION (EU), called for a balanced package within and across the two negotiating tracks.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called COP 22 an “implementation and action COP.”
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA, said NAMAs should not be used for offsetting and expressed concern over the possibility of double counting.
AOSIS noted linkages among market use, compliance system, net benefits, and, with TUVALU and BRAZIL, eligibility rules to ensure environmental integrity.
GUATEMALA requested to be considered as a particularly vulnerable country and called for consideration of social and human development indicators.
On anchoring institutions, the US, AILAC, AUSTRALIA and others preferred identifying existing institutions that would serve the new agreement on a case-by-case basis in the relevant sections.
Switzerland, Canada, the US, Norway, New Zealand and Australia opposed a short-term quantitative goal in the post-2020 period.
AUSTRALIA cautioned against loading JI and CDM with transactions costs.
The EU said the review of commitments should not be debated at COP-7 or the WSSD, but only after the Protocol has entered into force, possibly at COP-8.
 Mary Robinson, Mary Robinson Foundation e2 80 93 Climate Justice, recommended that: the UNFCCC Secretariat establish a human rights focal point, which SENEGAL and IRELAND supported; human and women’s rights be integrated throughout climate actions; and all parties and observers include local communities in their delegations.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others appealed for clarity on how to advance APA’s work beyond May 2017.
SPECIFIC NEEDS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS OF THE LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES: On 10 March, Mamadou Honadia, Coordinator, National Council for Environmental Management, Burkina Faso, outlined the specific needs and special situations of the LDCs.
The PHILIPPINES, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and ARGENTINA supported an increase in the IPCC budget to ensure full participation by developing country experts.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, called for the development of a preamble.
The AFRICAN GROUP characterized the technical paper as a repetition of the one already on the table.
UGANDA said Annex I countries must take seriously their commitment to transfer technology and financial resources to developing countries.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for developed countries to put forward ambitious quantified emission reduction commitments under the AWG-KP and lamented that current pledges are insufficient.
On the preamble, the US and CANADA, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, urged deleting text recalling UNFCCC Articles 4.1 (commitments for all Parties), 4.2 (Annex I commitments), 4.8 (adverse effects) and 4.9 (least developed countries), and Protocol Articles 2 (P&amp;Ms), 3.2 (demonstrable progress), 3.14 (adverse effects) and 7 (communication of information).
The US \t\tencouraged Parties to post results of their technology needs assessments \t\tonto TT:CLEAR.
COLOMBIA and the LDCs supported ex ante assessment and ex post review of climate finance.
ARGENTINA and AOSIS supported the draft decision.
The EU said that “process cannot constrain progress.”
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, explained that a “unified system” should allow for various approaches and continuously improve.
The US underscored that guidance needs to recognize that parties have a common path but different starting points and paces.
Cognizant of continued support for all the topics and the need to limit SRs to no more than three, the US, Saint Lucia, Solomon Islands, Maldives, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Luxembourg, Indonesia, Mexico, the EU, Germany and Venezuela supported undertaking the land use and oceans and cryosphere SRs during AR6 cycle, emphasizing cities in AR6, and flagging an SR on cities for the AR7 cycle.
The US and G-77/CHINA questioned the need to link paragraph 11 (governance) and 13 (outcomes), since they address two distinct issues: general reporting of the Committee\'s overall work and reporting of the outcomes of that work.
The US supported negotiating reporting guidelines under the AWG-LCA and, with Australia, reiterated the need to reach agreement on an operational MRV system in Cancún.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), Argentina and El Salvador, called for Annex I countries e2 80 99 leadership on mitigation and provision of finance and technology transfer.
 Several delegations commented on the EU proposal and some noted alternative approaches and priorities.
This proposal was opposed by AUSTRALIA, the US and SAUDI ARABIA.
Discussions continue on the EU “bubble.” Decisions were taken on methodologies and commitments.
In the general discussion that followed, several participants expressed their appreciation at the support provided by Finland and the US for projects to enhance regional capacity in tracking climate patterns.
The COP President invited parties to form a “huddle” to address diverging views around language in paragraph 4 of the document on a Durban Platform (FCCC/AWGLCA/2011/L.10) regarding the words “legal outcome.” Parties reconvened to replace the phrase with “agreed outcome with legal force.” India and the EU said they could support the agreed language.
INDIA stressed that references to carbon trading do not belong in this section
The EU stated that changing rules on issues such as additionality at the beginning of the first commitment period would upset the carbon market and be “the worst that one can do as a regulator.”
Initially only some developing countries expressed support for the AOSIS draft protocol while OPEC countries and China said that protocol negotiations were premature since neither the best available scientific information nor the review of Annex I Parties communications provided a sufficient basis for negotiations.
SOUTH AFRICA and JAPAN underscored comparability, and CHINA noted that it includes, inter alia, comparable efforts and legally binding commitments.
The EU supported the option of a mandate to conclude an LBI and proposed six elements for inclusion in such a mandate, including a clear end date for negotiations.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that emphasis should be on country-driven strategies and the needs and priorities of developing countries.
SENEGAL called for immediate financial and technical support to implement adaptation measures.
AUSTRALIA reiterated her country’s support for a legally-binding outcome, and flexibility concerning a single new protocol or a combination that involves the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
BOLIVIA highlighted historical responsibility.
AUSTRALIA and the US supported discussing the need for an expert group, but questioned the additional benefit of having such a group.
In response to a request from the EU, a timetable for the second order draft review was expanded to include governments as well as experts.
CANADA highlighted difficulties in implementing various forms of additionality other than environmental additionality.
The EU said concluding the PAWP in Katowice is crucial for the credibility of the UNFCCC process.
CHINA questioned the merit of having a positive list if projects still need to undergo the additionality test.
AOSIS \t\tcalled for a long-term goal well below a 2 ef bf bdC temperature increase.
Supported by AUSTRALIA, for the Umbrella Group, he underscored the importance of linking sustainable development and climate change.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, Switzerland, Norway and \t\tothers, said that referring to the whole decision covers the interests \t\tof all Parties.
Chair Pachauri proposed consultations between the US, Japan and the WG Co-Chairs.
The compliance drafting group met in an afternoon session to consider the section on consequences of the Co-Chairs 92 non-paper on outstanding issues and to discuss a new proposal from CANADA, JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA for the draft COP decision.
On its submissions on the adverse effects of climate change, AUSTRALIA said his paper gives priority to: capacity building; understanding the climate system; vulnerability; linkages between science and policy; and response measures relating to, inter alia, coastal and arid zones, vulnerable high-risk areas, water resources, and institutional strengthening.
NEW ZEALAND and INDIA expressed concern that averaging over a commitment period does not reflect long-term forestry cycles.
Chair Ashe continued informal consultations on the budget in an attempt to break the deadlock between the US and the EU.
Instead of entering negotiations on the draft decision, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CANADA, JAPAN and the EU, opposed by INDIA, BRAZIL, BARBADOS and CHINA, requested the option to provide further submissions on the operational priorities of the Fund.
VENEZUELA proposed restructuring the non-paper to reflect views expressed by developing countries and deleting the text that addresses the existing flexibility mechanisms under the Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA said financial penalties were the best way to proceed, while CANADA queried how these could be enforced.
The US noted increasing demand for agricultural commodities and highlighted the need to address demand-side issues.
SWITZERLAND suggested that Parties to the Convention and Parties to the protocol should hold meetings in conjunction, but the US and NEW ZEALAND specified that only Parties to the protocol should take decisions on it.
JAPAN cautioned against adopting standardized elements and guidelines for the review.
Responding to SOUTH AFRICA and FIJI on the level of ambition and consistency of the target with IPCC AR5 conclusions on limiting global warming to 2 c2 b0C, she stressed that New Zealand e2 80 99s goal is in accordance with national circumstances.
The US, INDONESIA and SOUTH AFRICA supported the principle of inclusiveness.
ETHIOPIA reported on the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Finance.
On harvested wood products, CANADA, supported by NEW ZEALAND and NORWAY, proposed a workshop to build capacity and advance knowledge, while the EU stressed submissions by Parties.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the Chair’s text as a good basis for further work under the AWG-KP but expressed concern over slow progress.
Saying that the decisions taken in Lima had set the stage for negotiations in 2015, Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group: highlighted decisions on guidance to the GCF and on long-term climate finance; noted that more work remained on market mechanisms and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol; and expressed appreciation to the organization of the first session of the multilateral assessment, noting that the Independent Assessment Report and international consultation and analysis are important processes for promoting transparency and enhancing understanding of respective national processes.
Maldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the need for Annex I emission reductions in the range of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and Bangladesh called for deep cuts.
However, Saudi Arabia, the US, and Australia \t\texpressed concerns about the proposed roundtable, with suggestions that \t\tthis topic could be removed from future SBSTA agendas for four years.
On the level of ambition, Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested: a process to increase ambition; technical workshops; and further consideration at COP 18.
The EU, supported by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, emphasized the need for a follow-up process to the communication of INDCs, and indicated, with Trinidad and Tobago,
The US commented that the discussion on the impacts of climate change on water resource needs to include implications for power production.
BOLIVIA stressed that the TEC should be the primary body, linked to a window in the financial mechanism to cover the full incremental costs of technology transfer, and highlighted MRV of technology transfer by developed countries.
Another element of the US proposal was possible sharing of commitments between Parties.
The EU regretted that substantive discussions will be postponed until then.
NEW ZEALAND preferred discussing long-term pathways at a global level.
He expressed concern with the IMO’s proposal to develop revenue streams for addressing climate change, while Japan, the US, Australia, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the Cook Islands and Panama supported the work of the IMO and ICAO to reduce emissions.
JAPAN supported a new, single, legally-binding instrument with participation of all major economies.
JAPAN emphasized that the intention is not to ignore and bury the Kyoto Protocol, but “expand the scope of responsibility and construct on the Kyoto foundation an expanded and more durable vehicle.”
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed that the success of flexible mechanisms depends on national circumstances and that domestic trading programmes can be used to adapt to country conditions and can be linked.
BOLIVIA said the financing provisions should be on a par with developed countries’ spending to rescue financial institutions during the current financial crisis.
CAPACITY BUILDING:  This contact group considered the Co-Chairs 92 draft proposal for a draft decision on capacity building for developing countries that was prepared on the basis of Parties 92 comments on the G-77/CHINA 92s proposal.
SWITZERLAND noted the importance of a variety of sources.
Nauru, for AOSIS, highlighted that policy decisions should be guided by science, and success will only be reached by working together.
On procedures for adjustments, JAPAN suggested adding the option whereby the Party itself could voluntarily apply an adjustment.
Belgium, the Maldives, Brazil, Sweden, Norway, Niger, Sudan and Argentina supported additional hires, while France, Canada and the US questioned Secretary Christ’s request for staff with scientific backgrounds, noting that the role of the Secretariat is meant to be administrative.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said unilateral funding for CDM would provide incentives for non-Annex I Parties to implement measures to reduce GHGs.
In response to the presentation, NEW ZEALAND called for consistency with Protocol language, and said the issue of share of proceeds for adaptation should be addressed later, and elsewhere.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, reiterated the need for real progress and expressed disappointment that more headway was not made.
The EU stressed the need to limit warming below 2°C and to avoid the possible crossing of critical thresholds.
JAPAN noted that compensation is not mentioned in the FCCC and the Kyoto Protocol.
\t\t\tBRAZIL, supported by CHINA, proposed deleting reference to the \t\t\tevolution process of the IPCC 2006 Guidelines, and the US, supported \t\t\tby a number of other parties, suggested a footnote to the overview \t\t\tchapter on IPCC guidelines.
IRAN said, on national inventories, that developing countries have done more than required and developed countries have not done enough.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed the importance of raising awareness of IPCC activities through the mass media.
 \t\tOn adaptation, the COP decides to address a range of issues, including \t\tinternational cooperation to support urgent implementation of various \t\tadaptation actions, taking into account the immediate needs of \t\tdeveloping countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse \t\teffects of climate change, especially LDCs, SIDS and African countries.
FRANCE presented discussions at an open-ended informal dialogue held from 5-6 May 2015, in Paris, France.
c2 a0 SAUDI ARABIA suggested combining text on ensuring resilience and adaptive capacity with text on ensuring that all investments are resilient to climate change.
94 The US \t\t\tpreferred dropping the reference to time and noting that 93many \t\t\timpacts can be reduced by mitigation.
Highlighting the relevance of interlinkages, VENEZUELA suggested considering various approaches together with other interlinked issues under the AWG-KP and CMP, such as CDM continuation.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed review as an integral part of a dynamic contribution cycle.
India, supported \t\t\tby the US, proposed specifying that taxes are cost-effective for \t\t\tsetting a price for carbon.
The EU, Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, and the US made suggestions on themes.
TANZANIA and MALI prioritized the transfer \t\tof adaptation-related technology.
AUSTRALIA supported analysis of barriers to technology transfer and suggested SBSTA draw on its roster of experts.
On the ambition of current pledges, the US noted that there are an infinite number of pathways that can place countries on track to remain within the 2˚C window, and suggested that reaching agreement on the implementation of the Cancun Agreements is the best place to start.
The NETHERLANDS said the Convention should focus on all issues, but take a phased approach.
The composition of the newly elected TFB is as follows: Co-Chairs Krug and Hiraishi; Washington Zhakata (Zimbabwe); Emmanuel Mpeta (United Republic of Tanzania); Zhou Linxi (China); Sirinthotutep Towprayoon (Thailand); Leonidas Girardin (Argentina); Sergio Gonzalez Martineaux (Chile); Art Jaques (Canada); William Irving (USA); Robert Sturgiss (Australia) shared with Leonard Brown (New Zealand) in turn; Rizaldi Boer (Indonesia); Detelina Petrova (Bulgaria) shared with Sadeddin Khefran (Syria) in turn; and Jim Penman (UK).
Introducing draft Appendix E on environmental and socioeconomic impacts of CDM projects, the EU, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND said this was developed following informal consultations, and aimed to help countries in preparing CDM projects.
This was supported by the LDCs, SICA and several non-Annex I parties.
The US emphasized work undertaken over the past two days on the Co-Chairs’ non-paper and progress already achieved.
Bolivia, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE AMERICAS (ALBA), identified Cancun as a step back for the AWG-KP and called for agreement on a second commitment period in Durban.
South Africa, for BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India and China), stressed that the ADP outcome should be in complete accordance with all the Convention principles, particularly CBDR and equity.
However, Colombia, Saudi Arabia and some other developing countries opposed giving preference to LDCs, SIDS and Africa, especially regarding methodologies, and called for equal treatment for all non-Annex I countries with few CDM projects.
CHINA stressed a gap in the implementation of the Convention and historical responsibility.
The EU supported requesting the Secretariat to develop a technical paper, containing a compilation of existing guidance on adaptation communications.
AUSTRALIA highlighted mitigation as another issue of wide interest, while CHINA preferred a focus on adaptation.
BRAZIL argued that biofuel production resulted from energy security efforts rather than Annex I mitigation measures, and highlighted its achievements in enhancing biofuel production efficiency.
Robert \t\tDixon, US Department of Energy, highlighted the environmental and energy \t\tsecurity benefits of hydrogen and fuel cell technology, and noted \t\tchallenges in hydrogen production, storage, delivery infrastructure and \t\tsafety.
NORWAY said rule 16 has consequences for the status of the voluntary meeting of experts and argued that without conclusions the meetings might not continue automatically.
CHINA labeled the EB’s recent decision to rejects its wind power projects as “unfair” and “non-transparent.” He suggested that the decision was based on the assumption that China has reduced feed-in tariffs in order to promote CDM projects.
The PHILIPPINES identified the need to finance readiness for NAMAs rather than specific actions.
EGYPT suggested that this change would mean one registry for both adaptation and mitigation actions.
CANADA, with ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, stated that whereas broad cooperation between the conventions was desirable, it is still unclear how it would work, and preferred retaining the current language.
On non-Annex I commitments, the G-77/CHINA opposed any text that would infer new commitments.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, underscored the UNFCCC as the sole legitimate forum for these negotiations and denounced all means that would place the determination of the agreed outcome in Copenhagen in the hands of a few countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the group’s mandate is to consider the “full, sustained and effective implementation of the Convention,” particularly implementation of Convention Articles 4.1(c) and 4.5 (technology transfer) and urged parties not to digress from this mandate.
China said the text does not reflect the concerns of both sides and that it should specify how the developed countries’ commitment to mobilize US$100 billion included in the Cancun Agreements will be achieved.
On Monday, 1 June, ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened ADP 2-9.
The EU expressed surprise at the Co-Chair ef bf bds request to provide solutions, saying that he was not convinced that solutions exist.
BRAZIL noted that the AWG’s success depends on its ability to focus on Annex I commitments.
EGYPT said support should focus not only on planning and elaboration of NAMAs, but also on implementation, and stressed that the revision of reporting guidelines should not lead to unification of guidelines for both Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
The G-77/China favored the conventional UN regional approach, but JUSCANZ and the EU, because of the specifics of Convention, wanted an Annex I/non-Annex I balance.
MOROCCO said an MCP should adopt recommendations and report to the COP independently of the SBSTA and the SBI.
BULGARIA, HUNGARY, POLAND and ROMANIA sought flexibility in report preparation for Parties with economies in transition and approval to use years prior to 1990 as their base years.
The EU, supported by the US and CANADA, endorsed text on pilot and/or demonstration projects, which supported the concept of learning by doing.
Highlighting the slow pace of discussions, AUSTRALIA said it would only ratify the Protocol if there was a workable package at COP-6.
The PHILIPPINES suggested that parties use their proposed draft text, which builds on the facilitator’s note from the Bonn session, as a basis for discussion.
AILAC called for reviewing and revising financial commitments upward on the same timeline as the review of mitigation ambition.
NORWAY called for differentiated commitments for individual Parties.
The UK further suggested considering the scope of the synthesis report at the outset.
CHINA said comparability should include consideration of: the legal nature of commitments; the magnitude of mitigation targets; and the compliance systems.
URUGUAY said there were no criteria on whether the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies has to sit on the Bureau and asked if there had been any progress on the rules of procedure concerning the composition of Bureau with 10 or 11 members.
  This subsection was first addressed in an informal group, co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Antonina Ivanova Boncheva (Mexico) on Wednesday afternoon and evening.
GERMANY reported on the 6th Petersberg Dialogue, which took place from 17-19 May 2015, in Berlin, Germany.
NORWAY proposed auctioning emission allowances to finance adaptation.
 \t\t\tThe UK, for \t\t\tthe EU, and supported by many others, called for a more ambitious \t\t\tCOP 13 decision that is less focused on technical and methodological \t\t\tissues.
TUVALU, supported by MALAYSIA, objected to defining assigned amounts (AA) within this contact group.
The US preferred schedules.
CHILE emphasized the voluntary nature of the information contained in national communications.
JAPAN supported halving global emissions by 2050, while INDIA stressed that the Convention does not reference legally binding emission reduction commitments for developing countries.
 Numerous countries, including AUSTRALIA and the US, supported the work programme.
FIJI urged the international community to be sympathetic to \t\tthe needs of SIDS.
However, \t\tmany other parties, including AOSIS, the G-77/China and EU supported its \t\tinclusion.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, said the TEC and centers and networks should have equal standing and they would report to the COP through the SBSTA.
He expressed hope that the US will offer a more ambitious target, while urging the US to deliver on its pledge.
 NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said COP-6 discussions should be based on equity and justice.
BOLIVIA stressed the mandate to finalize work under the two negotiating tracks, indicated that the consideration of a new instrument is premature and suggested focusing on substance.
 , the EU said the numbers presented for the amount of land needed for energy projects and forests come from model projections and, supported by Brazil, noted that the numbers assume a steep increase in agricultural productivity, the feasibility of which might not have been considered.
CHINA proposed that the chair make a ruling to start work under SBI and in parallel conduct formal or informal consultations to explore the proposals.
ARMENIA said EITs have a particular challenge in moving toward a market economy without increasing their greenhouse gas emissions and said this transition should be guided by the principles of sustainable development.
The EU called for a collective reduction of 30% below 1990 levels for developed countries.
The US opposed the establishment of new spin-off groups on any issues, including finance.
The UK, with ARGENTINA and the US, \t\tsuggested that the IPCC should 93have a story 94 on aerosols, even if that \t\tstory is the postponement of further work until after the AR4.
IRAN proposed amending “geographical representation” to “equitable” geographical representation.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for creating an accessible and simple NDC registry, and Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the need to clarify its objective, function and nature.
NEW ZEALAND explained that his country is prepared to take on an emission reduction target of 10-20% below 1990 levels by 2020, if there is a global comprehensive agreement that would have to meet a number of conditions.
 MALAWI underscored his country’s intention to prepare more detailed concept notes for NAMAs to be implemented as pilot projects in the energy, agriculture, forestry and waste sectors, saying criteria for NAMA selection includes, inter alia: high level of replicability and potential entry points for business investments.
The US proposed also inviting "interested international organizations."
JAPAN underscored that an 85% retention rate can \t\tbe achieved when carbon dioxide is injected to an ocean depth of 3000 \t\tmeters, and noted parallels between ocean and geological storage.
BOLIVIA expressed concern over the lack of balance on references to mitigation and other elements, such as adaptation and capacity building.
JAPAN highlighted that the private sector in his country is engaged in capacity building and supported retaining the reference.
NORWAY suggested that the collective efforts paragraph provide a framework for individual efforts.
BOLIVIA said the 2012-2020 period should not be a period of developing rules, systems and regulations, but of concrete implementation of actions.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for more time on finance and adaptation.
Many delegations recorded objections, including SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, QATAR, NIGERIA, OMAN, UAE, KUWAIT, LEBANON, CHINA, SYRIA and JORDAN.
On a paragraph with three options relating to communication of INDCs, including their scope, Algeria, for the Arab Group, proposed its deletion.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, with China and Ecuador, regretted the lack of consensus on this item.
As an entry point for discussions, the US suggested considering how the CDM relates to this process, also mentioning additionality, encouraging economies to move towards cleaner technology and sending signals to the private sector.
Most delegates accepted unbracketed text on equitable geographical distribution among regions, but the US proposed dividing membership equally between Annex I and Annex II.
Javier Diaz on a joint proposal from Cyprus and the EU to amend Annex I to the Convention to include Cyprus.
Spain, for the European Union (EU), stressed the need to “frankly assess” lessons from Copenhagen, improve the organization and methods of work and enhance confidence in the process and among parties.
CHINA supported the second option, with BRAZIL suggesting some amendments to it.
Regarding text on approaches to loss and damage, NORWAY, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, said slow onset events should be included, without mentioning sectoral specifics.
On Agenda Item 8(c) (cooperation with IPCC), several delegations including the EU, AUSTRALIA, US, CANADA, MYANMAR and MAURITIUS endorsed the IPCC.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, on behalf of the G77/CHINA, inquired about FCCC liaison arrangements in New York in addition to those in Geneva.
JAPAN stressed, inter alia, the need to: set a long-term goal by 2050; increase transparency; review and update targets or actions for 2020; explore various approaches towards a post-2020 climate regime; and engage in international cooperation for low-carbon development.
Responding to CHINA, the Secretariat highlighted their commitment to ensuring balance between developed and developing country representation on the expert review panels.
Regarding the NAMA review process, CHILE said developing countries should be supported to carry out the MRV preparatory phase, which would include establishment of a standardized process and common institutional framework with clearly defined guidelines specifying the process for the in-depth review.
  Calling for elaboration of an equity reference framework, the Gambia, for LDCs, supported the use of metric and non-metric criteria, such as historical responsibility, future sustainable needs, and vulnerabilities.
KUWAIT disagreed with a reference to the SAR as a “clear indication” of the likelihood of climate change, and noted that the optimum strategy for addressing the problem will depend on the circumstances of each country.
 Spain, for the EU, stated that the EU’s emissions in 2008 decreased domestically by 11.3% compared to 1990 levels and welcomed advances made on key elements such as adaptation, finance, national communications and Convention Article 6.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, said that they could not provide an overview of the new text as it was just delivered.
On differentiating the eligibility of parties through the use of indicators, INDIA suggested that reference also be made to Annex I parties.
BRAZIL said CCS is incompatible with the CDM.
The EU, TUVALU and others preferred not to limit the Chair’s paper to the work of this session.
Norway and the EU opposed a provision on share of proceeds in Articles 6 and 17 (Emissions Trading).
AOSIS called for the GEF to be strengthened and for a strong replenishment.
Regarding cooperation with other conventions, SWITZERLAND said cooperation should not only be limited to the secretariats.
MOROCCO said capacity building mechanisms should also be included.
KUWAIT proposed that QELROs’ impact on the economic and social structure of developing countries as well as their effect on atmospheric GHG concentrations be recognized.
The Dominican Republic, for the G-77/CHINA, requested the establishment of a contact group.
SWITZERLAND said that ministerial meetings should not be overused and should be timely and well organized to ensure productivity.
The EU, the US, Australia, Canada, Japan and Poland supported designating the GEF as the permanent entity entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism.
 The US and ITALY expressed their concern about adding the Chinese proposal.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged the adoption of ambitious reduction targets to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
AUSTRALIA proposed deletion of text relating to achieving political parity between mitigation and adaptation.
 The EU said he fully and unequivocally supported the Ministerial Declaration.
France, for the European Union (EU), highlighted the potential for using a levy on aviation revenue to combat climate change and, with Australia, the use of carbon markets to achieve cost-effective mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by others, drew attention to contentious elements, including technical assessments of non-Annex I communications contained in the EU proposal.
CANADA highlighted the need to catalyze private financial flows and investment and called for prioritizing the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable countries, as well as maximizing the effectiveness of existing institutions, frameworks and networks.
The US suggested an additional option, to develop a series of decisions based on Decision 1/CP.16 alone and not on Decision 1/CP.13.
AOSIS noted high costs of some adaptation options, particularly in coastal areas, and proposed creating an adaptation fund under the Convention on the basis of the “polluter pays” principle.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that in-depth reviews should be received as soon as possible.
He noted that EU member states have conferred powers on the EC with regard to climate change and that the EC is an active supporter of the IPCC through its funding of research activities.
With MALI, RWANDA, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, and TIMOR-LESTE, she opposed the co-financing requirement, which she said is particularly burdensome for LDCs.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested paying attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of parties.
PAKISTAN said clarification was required on the set of objectives, core principles and their application, and lessons to be drawn upon.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, with BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA, emphasized capturing CBDR.
The EU, Canada and the US disagreed, opposed by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with including finance in the INDCs, noting this issue will not be resolved in Lima.
The US stressed the need for greater clarity on the intended role of the GEF regarding Article 5.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the link between the transparency and compliance mechanisms.
The issue of equity was supported by the UK.
Australia, with the \t\tUS, Canada and the EU, and opposed by the G-77/China and AOSIS, \t\tsupported addressing the issue of 93factoring out 94 direct human-induced \t\teffects from the indirect and natural effects of LULUCF activities.
The G-77/CHINA preferred focusing on the period after COP-7, while CANADA and others noted that capacity building was a long-term process that did not begin at COP-7.
 CHINA reiterated that the Berlin Mandate requires an elaboration of P&amp;Ms whose objectives should be clear at this stage.
CHINA opposed a US proposal that CRF tables contain key source categories, proposing that uncertainties cover all categories.
VENEZUELA stated that trading countries’ obligations under the Convention is inconsistent with the Convention’s principles and called for a more principled discussion rather than commenting on the proposals reflected in the table.
CHILE, COSTA RICA and PERU supported beginning work immediately on all elements of the Durban Platform.
JAPAN said one of the features of its proposal was the existence of a Committee on the Kyoto Mechanisms.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: more harmonized reflections across items; clarity on addressing pre-2020 work; and further focus on linkages.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed the need for comparable numbers and supported a five-year commitment period, which would allow the process to respond to emerging science and to deepen commitments before 2020.
SAUDI ARABIA questioned the capacity of the Secretariat to undertake this task.
The US proposed a placeholder for a new annex x, to be agreed in Paris and updated regularly based on criteria relating to evolving emissions and economic trends, and for a new annex y, agreed based on capabilities and evolving economic circumstances.
However, the US opposed \t\tthis, and delegates ultimately agreed that the meeting would be convened \t\tjust by the SBI Chair.
The EU noted success in sending a strong signal to the private sector concerning the flexible mechanisms.
The EU and others urged adoption of the conclusions.
\t\t\tMaldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the work of the LDC Expert \t\t\tGroup, funding for adaptation, and management of the LDC Fund.
The US and AUSTRALIA suggested guidelines for a possible referral to the compliance body.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that it would not support text stipulating that all parties must contribute financial resources nor an approach suggesting differentiation among developing countries on access to financial resources.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said national communications are important and called for continued flexibility by the GEF in approving funds for SIDS.
ARGENTINA, the LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA and China, for the LMDCs, emphasized differentiation, with many calling for maintaining the existing e2 80 9ctwo-track e2 80 9d approach to MRV.
GRENADA, the US, JAPAN and Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed learning from the Structured Expert Dialogue (SED) on the 2013-2015 review.
Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), called for informal and reflection notes, suggesting that some decisions could be taken at COP 23.
 \t\tThe EU, with \t\tBRAZIL, suggested dealing with the problem outside the CDM.
The US, supported by CANADA and others, expressed concern with reopening of issues and proposed establishing spin-off groups to consider issues specifically mandated by COP 17.
The EU supported developing the arrangements in a cooperative manner and suggested a draft proposal be submitted for consideration by relevant bodies and approval by COP 19.
NORWAY highlighted the need to address carbon emissions leakage.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for inclusion of information on why parties perceive their contributions as equitable.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed the need to preserve the balance among the various elements of the Paris Agreement and complete the negotiations on additional matters under the APA.
INDIA \t\t\temphasized several concrete adaptation initiatives that it is \t\t\timplementing.
PAKISTAN requested clarification on how to proceed with different national definitions of equity that reflect domestic circumstances and SINGAPORE clarified that the goal is a definition of equity that reflects different national circumstances.
AUSTRALIA noted initiatives supporting \t\tinternational cooperation, including the Carbon Sequestration Leadership \t\tForum and Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP).
UGANDA said the text should focus on clear actions for transfer of mitigation and adaptation technologies.
Brazil, with China and Thailand, strongly objected to a US proposal that made reference to the technology transfer and the CDM, opposing attempts to link technology transfer under the UNFCCC to the Protocol.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed concern over systematic attempts to lower expectations for Copenhagen and recalled that, according to the mandate agreed in Bali, the AWG-LCA should complete its work in 2009.
The EU suggested that the legal and technical review had not taken into account the guidance document and, with the US, JAPAN, and NORWAY, said that developing guidance to the Fund should be considered at COP-8.
The EU presented two options: adoption of a decision by COP-6 that would have immediate interim effect, accompanied by a recommendation to COP/MOP-1 to adopt an identical instrument; or adoption of a legal instrument that would enter into force at the same time as the Protocol.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, emphasized the need for flexibility to achieve a balanced and environmentally-effective outcome.
 AUSTRALIA had difficulty with the aspect of the text committing Parties to legally binding targets in a final legal instrument without the nature and context being clear, and could not associate itself with the language on targets.
BARBADOS suggested retaining a distinction between NAMAs, and plans and strategies, noting that the former is part of the latter and not vice versa.
AOSIS added that developed countries should take the lead.
The G-77/CHINA said it would hold internal consultations on the matter.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, rejected attempts to marginalize the Kyoto Protocol.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and SINGAPORE preferred specifying arrangements for individuals serving on constituted bodies and other entities established under the UNFCCC and not only under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, \t\tsupported by NEW ZEALAND, recommended involving practitioners.
BRAZIL and SAMOA warned against sacrificing environmental integrity of the CDM, while AUSTRALIA and SWITZERLAND asserted that rules can be simplified while maintaining stringency in environmental outcomes.
On Tuesday, 9 December, Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, requested that, pursuant to Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the provisional agenda for SBI-20 and subsequent sessions should include an item on the "continuing review of the function and operations of the Secretariat," and requested that this proposal be officially noted in the report of SBI-19.
CHINA said the BAPA only calls for 93demonstrable progress 94 by COP-6.
In response to Co-Chair Moosa 92s request to comment on carbon sequestration, NORWAY highlighted successes in re-injecting carbon dioxide into the continental shelf.
As well, participants \t\t\tagreed to language suggested by the US to clarify that, while many \t\t\tof these radiative forcing phenomena have natural components, the \t\t\tfigure only reflects the anthropogenic contribution.
NEPAL stressed benefits to local people and, with INDIA, highlighted conservation.
SAUDI ARABIA, THE GAMBIA, COLOMBIA, IRAN and INDIA opposed any consideration of voluntary commitments at COP-4.
With all the other significant emitters on board for the Paris Agreement, the engagement of social and economic actors, and dedication of subnational authorities, many ventured that the world could move ahead with the transformation to a low-emissions world and leave the US in the economy of the past.
AILAC recommended, given the number of INDCs with adaptation components, requesting the Secretariat to develop a technical paper that distills their common elements.
The US said top-down approaches may not always be appropriate and, with EAST TIMOR, highlighted the need to clarify who the actors are in the text.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted that parties must agree on a legally-binding agreement in Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA proposed focusing on anthropogenic emissions (excluding natural disturbances, inter-annual variability and problems of age-class structure); addressing harvested wood products; deciding on whether activities are voluntary or obligatory; and adopting either an activity-or land use–based approach.
CHINA identified issues missing from the Secretariat’s synthesis report but covered in the G-77/China paper, including transparency and climate change effectiveness.
\t\t\tThe US opposed, saying that the list reflected the underlying \t\t\tchapters where the Caribbean is not listed.
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, called for assistance in implementing the UNFCCC and Protocol, and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC urged a specific decision on UNFCCC Article 4.9 (adverse effects on LDCs).
 Regarding flexibility, FRANCE reminded Parties of the importance of minimizing costs in achieving objectives and proposed flexibility in meeting their QELROs.
On circumstances of the most vulnerable, CARICOM, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, BELIZE and SAINT LUCIA highlighted the special circumstances of SIDS, noting this “reality is not negotiable,” and said that arrangements for loss and damage are crucial.
AUSTRIA, NEW ZEALAND and many others highlighted the need for \t\tnew emission scenarios prior to AR5, while CHINA said new scenarios \t\tshould only be considered after the AR4 is completed.
 CHINA criticized the US presentation for changing the direction of the AGBM, failing to link development with the existing economic structure of a country and considering only the industrial development that has occurred since 1990.
ITALY said that efforts to facilitate the participation of all delegates to COP-9 were being made.
Towards the end of the day, the US said that it could not indicate its acceptance of the emerging compromise until Thursday morning.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, supported by Saudi Arabia and opposed by the Umbrella Group, and the EU, called for amending the agenda item on the NDC registry by removing a reference to Paris Agreement Article 4.12 (NDC registry) from its title.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and MEXICO favored retaining the option of introducing emissions trading on the basis of NAMAs.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized the importance of addressing adaptation, and loss and damage.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported small-scale projects.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for an Agreement Article 6.2 (ITMOs) oversight body to allow for up-front reporting.
CANADA, opposed by BRAZIL, preferred consideration of the issue under the AWG-LCA.
VENEZUELA requested further explanation regarding the reasoning behind, and financial implications of the proposal.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, called for clear guidelines on what should be measured, verified and accounted for in the MRV system, and for an agreed operational definition of climate finance.
CUBA highlighted the need for efficient use of time, noting that the COP plenary had been scheduled for 1:00 pm but had only convened at 10:00 pm.
UZBEKISTAN requested a COP decision to enable CACAM to receive financial support and its experts to be nominated and participate in expert groups.
The US proposal was \t\tpresented as a 93take it or leave it 94 offer, based on Dion 92s text, which \t\tstrengthened references to technology and stated that the process should \t\tbe 93non-binding 94 and 93not open any negotiations leading to new \t\tcommitments.
On the COP/MOP, JAPAN, CANADA, the US and POLAND reiterated a preference for existing Article 6 provisions.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said any political statement or declaration that leaves the legal form open was unacceptable.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, requested adding sections on general principles and the purpose of the global stocktake with reference to the Convention, and on outcomes.
The PHILIPPINES, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that needs were still being assessed after five years.
Martin \t\tPuta Tofinga, Minister of Environment, Soil and Agriculture, Kiribati, \t\tnoted that SIDS are some of the most vulnerable countries to the impacts \t\tof climate change and urged Parties that have not yet ratified the \t\tProtocol to do so.
MOZAMBIQUE and PORTUGAL noted the importance of the draft decisions on LDCs.
 The Maldives, for AOSIS, and the EU proposed acknowledging that climate change requires the widest possible cooperation.
GERMANY supported international cooperation that recognizes Parties’ “common but differentiated” responsibilities.
SOUTH AFRICA said ICA guidelines must respect national sovereignty and that consultations should be undertaken in a multilateral setting.
  On Tuesday morning, Sir Peter Williams, Vice-President of The Royal Society, UK, and member of the IAC Review committee, presented the major findings and recommendations of the IAC.
On  , the US, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and other developed countries stressed the need to consider the report by the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Funding (AGF), expected in the autumn.
GEORGIA noted the readiness of many non-Annex I countries to take on voluntary commitments on GHGs, with adequate support under Article 4 within the framework of the CDM.
SWITZERLAND and NORWAY highlighted the existence of due process provisions in, and the need to be consistent with, the text on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA (BASIC), noted that increased pre-2020 ambition by developed countries, including full capitalization of the GCF, will build trust in the post-2020 process.
INDIA stressed the distinction between luxury and survival emissions.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US.
The ARAB GROUP, called for the reinstatement of adaptation co-benefits coming in the “form” of mitigation.
On the EU proposal to insert two paragraphs on monitoring of emissions of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 and 17 under national systems, delegates agreed to a compromise proposal by CANADA for a new paragraph under Characteristics that would refer to relevant IPCC guidelines and COP or COP/MOP decisions.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, suggested a role for SBSTA and the possible need for an expert meeting before COP-4.
AUSTRALIA said its compliance procedure focused on Protocol Article 3.
The PHILIPPINES and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that market-based approaches are not covered by the Convention, while AUSTRALIA favored considering the flexibility mechanisms also under the AWG-LCA given that not all Annex I parties participate in discussions under the AWG-KP.
Malawi, for the LDCs, lamented that text on “encouraging policy signals by governments” does not address provision of climate finance.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Brazil, also on behalf of Argentina and Uruguay, stressed the need for in-depth dialogue on the governance and operational modalities of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
The US also specified that their mid-term goal would mean stabilizing emissions at 1990 levels by 2020.
AOSIS stressed that sectoral approaches for developed countries must be considered in the context of national targets.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need to incorporate scientific information released since the IPCC AR4, which points to climate change effects occurring much faster than projected and previous research greatly underestimating costs of inaction.
JAPAN said the report should reflect the fact that some issues were raised but may not have been discussed in-depth or agreed on.
The US queried SBI recommendations that all heads of delegations be "accorded equal treatment" and that the segment be conducted in a "transparent manner."
The US stressed the importance of ensuring that the underlying report is accurately reflected and engaging the WG Co-Chairs and TSUs at every stage of the process.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted that some areas of the Bali Action Plan have not been thoroughly addressed and that the mechanisms established for adaptation and other issues are not yet operational.
PALESTINE noted that financial resources from developed countries for adaptation should also be provided to non-parties.
The US distinguished between providing reassurance about continuity of finance after 2012 and having a numerical target, noting that his country was scaling up financing.
The G-77/CHINA, with BOLIVIA and ALGERIA, expressed concern with the proliferation of groups.
With SINGAPORE, he said voluntary, unilateral NAMAs must be internationally recognized, and supported a registry for this purpose.
ARGENTINA, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed concern that this group was not mandated by the COP-6 Bureau and was therefore not established using the accepted process.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to complete the review in Poznań, while JAPAN, NORWAY and others supported continuing consideration of some issues beyond Poznań.
Lesotho, for LDCs, drew attention to people’s human rights, which have been compromised by climate change.
SENEGAL replied that the quality of leadership was not the issue, but principle of expanding the Bureau.
Parties also deliberated on the role of the Protocol, with the G-77/China and AOSIS supporting a reference to the ongoing role of the Protocol and Canada opposing it saying it prejudges the legal form of the outcome.
The US suggested that carbon neutrality, low-emission development strategies and the long-term temperature goal be treated in decisions.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against overlooking non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions, and opposed proposals to reduce fossil fuels imports, given impacts to those economies that depend on such commodities.
On general principles, SUDAN highlighted CBDR, leadership by developed countries and special circumstances.
Adam Matthews, Global Legislators Organization (GLOBE), UK, presented a study on national climate change legislation covering 33 countries.
Marcin Korolec, Minister of Environment, Poland, for the EU, called for a roadmap leading to a global comprehensive and legally binding framework.
The US, the EU and others supported further exploring the idea of sectoral approaches.
The EU and G-77/CHINA accepted unbracketed text on equitable geographical distribution among regions, but the US proposed dividing membership equally between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties and suggested that "equitable geographical distribution" be replaced with "with one half to be designated by Annex I-Parties and one half to be designated by non-Annex I Parties."
The EU, JAPAN and others replied that the new gases do not have significant mitigation potential as they have not yet been commercialized, but that their inclusion would prevent them from becoming a problem.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, the EU, NORWAY and others, proposed creating a separate sub-group on proposals relating to common mitigation elements.
The US distributed amendments and Saudi Arabia also suggested several minor amendments.
The President said each of the five regional groups are to be represented by two Bureau members and one Bureau member will represent the small island developing states (SIDS).
Welcomed by the PHILIPPINES, INDIA and others, the US said financing is crucial for developing countries, and stressed the need for institutions and financial architecture that respond to developing country financing needs and improve developing countries’ capacity to benefit from carbon markets.
SUDAN emphasized that survival has to be the “rule of thumb” for equity.
The US urged increased engagement of the private sector in technology transfer.
The PHILIPPINES proposed text to distinguish the topics for the special report from those for inclusion in the TAR.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA questioned the need for a decision at this point.
BRAZIL and the EU called for national forest monitoring systems.
He praised the Canadian delegation, the \t\t 93wonderful 94 UNFCCC Secretariat team, Canada 92s Foreign Affairs Minister \t\tPierre Pettigrew, former US President Bill Clinton, and former UNFCCC \t\tExecutive Secretary Michael Zammit Cutajar, who he described as the \t\t 93hero of a new episode of climate diplomacy 94 for his work in the \t\tnegotiations.
On relevant methodological issues, BRAZIL pointed out that the IPCC does not prescribe the use of global warming potentials (GWPs).
EGYPT called for a discussion on the different facets of vulnerability as a cornerstone of future actions.
ETHIOPIA, supported by MALI, noted that the language already reflects compromise and preferred retaining the text as it stands.
INDIA highlighted uncertainties in adaptation, including costs and adaptive capacity.
AOSIS also highlighted concrete projects, such as the Pacific Islands Greenhouse Gas Abatement through Renewable Energy Project, which involves 11 countries and is expected to reduce emissions by 33% below BAU by 2015.
Several parties emphasized the voluntary nature of adjustments to NDCs, with the EU underlining this should be compatible with progress towards a long-term goal in the agreement.
INDIA, with BRAZIL, TUVALU, INDONESIA, GRENADA, MEXICO and others, called for organizing an intersessional meeting before Durban.
BANGLADESH expressed concern about the uneven regional distribution of funding.
 c2 a0Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), with EL SALVADOR, called for, inter alia: textual negotiations on the new agreement; an integrated approach to mitigation and adaptation; MOI; and closing the implementation gap.
The US suggested basing group discussions on both the G77/China questions and the Co-Chairs\' draft proposed schedule.
Noting that LDCs have made progress in National Adaptation Programmes of Action, Angola, for the LDCs, stressed the LEG’s role in providing support and lamented lack of finance in the LDCs Fund.
The US called for less emphasis on details of domestic actions or national circumstances and more time for data collection on emissions trading and CDM projects.
BRAZIL pointed to the difference between communicating and updating NDCs.
JAPAN did not agree and called for retention of its proposal that QELROs would be set for C02 only.
CHINA noted that there are limited practical options available at this point, except political willingness to accelerate negotiations, because both changing the entry into force requirements and provisional application would require amendment, which would be subject to the current rules on entry into force.
The EU proposed a matching platform for developing countries to list their needs and match them with support.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted that priority must be given to adaptation.
India and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed public sources should be the main source.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern over the possibility of a small body such as the compliance body recommending policies and measures, and said the impact of such policies and measures on non-Annex I countries should be taken into account.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, opposed a technical paper synthesizing types of adaptation-related information included in NDCs.
Sweden, for the European Union (EU), emphasized the need to condense the negotiating text and focus on the key political issues forming the pillars.
Switzerland, for the EIG, NORWAY, for Australia, New Zealand, the US, Canada and Japan, the EU and MARSHALL ISLANDS, opposed by CHINA, proposed that the Secretariat prepare a technical paper compiling all the information on NAMAs submitted by developing countries.
BOLIVIA requested attribution and allocating brackets in a more balanced manner.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said the level of impacts on vulnerable countries will depend on the scale of emissions reductions by developed countries.
SWITZERLAND addressed the need for a clear division of work on methodologies between the SBSTA, TAP-M and the IPCC.
VENEZUELA, supported by BOLIVIA, called for a better allocation of time among the different agenda issues.
Panama, for CfRN, highlighted REDD+ as one of the key mechanisms to fight climate change, and, with Maldives, for AOSIS, and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for designing the market-based mechanism under the Paris Agreement to ensure environmental integrity.
The EU looked forward to a strong outcome from the Talanoa Dialogue.
COLOMBIA urged: identifying under which bodies the Bali Action Plan can continue to be implemented; “giving closure to what can be closed”; and giving comfort to those who feel some issues are not reflected in the text.
NICARAGUA said private sector investments in general could be better directed to renewable energy, energy efficiency, reforestation and avoidance of deforestation.
BULGARIA, on behalf of the CENTRAL GROUP 11, said the Group would undertake to identify spokespersons for the individual issues by Tuesday, and would comment on President Pronk ef bf bds informal note once members had studied the document.
AUSTRALIA called for a clear understanding of the objectives of the contact group discussions and suggested focusing on making the agreed mechanisms and bodies fully operational.
China stressed the importance of the forum to minimize or prevent the negative impacts of response measures, and expressed concern with the inclusion of aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Other countries, including JAPAN, KENYA and SAUDI \t\tARABIA, said that a reference to risks in this section was not \t\tnecessary.
The Chair attempted to accept the text for forwarding to the COP, but the US objected.
ICELAND specified that separate reporting can only be initiated in the event that the assigned emissions amounts are exceeded as a result of single projects.
 \t\tPortugal, for the EU, stated that the EU is fully convinced of the \t\turgency of enhancing international cooperation in order to rapidly \t\taccelerate the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY called for a focus on core issues.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Uganda, for LDCs, and the PHILIPPINES highlighted means of implementation and support as a possible way forward.
The US elaborated that governance arrangements for the new fund would be structured to give a balanced representation of net contributors and net recipients, and indicated that all parties, except the LDCs, would contribute to the fund in line with capabilities but that contributions would not be mandatory.
AILAC called for progress on loss and damage.
Spain, for the EU, suggested MRV of: how much support is provided; the purpose of support; channels through which the support is provided, whether bilateral or multilateral; and types of support such as grants or loans.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested focusing on financing required for the preparation of national communications and implementation of the CGE’s activities.
Maldives, for the LDCs, complained of funding delays for implementing national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that the COP should provide further guidance to the GCF Board on how to expedite the operationalization of the Fund and initiate an early and adequate replenishment process.
France, on behalf of the EU, added "bearing in mind the discussions on the subject held during INC-10 and 11" to the preamble.
AUSTRALIA cautioned against loading JI and CDM with transaction costs.
 \t\t \t\tMany parties, including the G-77/CHINA, EU and others, stressed the need \t\tfor more equitable geographic distribution of CDM projects, particularly \t\tfor Africa.
In other related news, the European Commission confirmed late October its position that EU members should ratify in time for the Johannesburg Summit.
The G-77/CHINA said the text needed a more balanced and equitable treatment of many issues, supported starting negotiations and using the Chair’s text to facilitate this.
CANADA advocated for maximum flexibility in the use of mechanisms to ensure that the necessary resources are provided.
Switzerland, for the EIG, identified the need to, inter alia: raise the ambition of Annex I targets; enhance the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and carbon market; and consider carryover of Assigned Amount Units (AAUs).
 The NETHERLANDS, on behalf of the OECD, reported on the Climate Technology Initiative (CTI), which was established to assist all interested countries in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC.
Supported by Lesotho, for the LDCs, Spain, for the EU, Panama, South Africa, Australia, Colombia, Malawi, the Philippines and Norway, AOSIS proposed requesting the Secretariat prepare a technical paper on the options for limiting global average temperature increase to below 1.5°C and 2°C.
The Maldives and Mauritius called for technology transfer to address adaptation needs in SIDS.
Iceland, with Norway and the EU, stressed a forward-looking perspective and gender balance.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested a robust compliance mechanism.
The BINGOS stressed the need for communication with financial experts.
AUSTRALIA accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions, but voiced concern that paragraph 6, as amended, narrows possible inputs.
He said contracting has been slower than ideal but was necessary due to budgetary cycles in the UK.
The US reaffirmed its commitment to reduce its emissions intensity and opposed the creation of new bodies to review the communications.
\t\tParticipants were briefed by speakers from a number of countries on a \t\trange of topics, including: reducing fluorinated gases in the EU; US \t\tactions on non-CO2 greenhouse gases, including the Methane to Markets \t\tPartnership; a participatory approach to mitigation of non-CO2 gases in \t\tthe Netherlands; non-CO2 emissions reductions in the UK; methane \t\trecovery and utilization from agriculture sources in China; New \t\tZealand ef bf bds approach to mitigate greenhouse gases in the agriculture \t\tsector; non-CO2 livestock production in Uruguay; and greenhouse gas \t\temissions from German landfills.
BRAZIL \t\tcharacterized the AWG 92s work as a straightforward task that should \t\tsimply lead to deeper commitments by Annex I parties.
AOSIS suggested improvements to the TEMs, including by providing advanced information, producing a technical paper after each TEM, and focusing on barriers to implementation.
The EU emphasized the need to make progress on upfront costs of capital investment, agriculture, forestry and other land uses.
He suggested: a roundtable in June to discuss efforts countries see themselves taking from 2020 in the context of national circumstances; and, supported by the EU and Norway, a roundtable on a potential consultation process to compare efforts proposed by countries and the level of mitigation ambition required by science
AUSTRALIA emphasized that budget priorities need to be clarified, and, with BRAZIL, CHINA, the EU, JAPAN, NORWAY, and RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the budget increase is too high.
CANADA acknowledged strong convergence on the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, noting that the majority of parties have taken concrete actions, leading to concrete impacts.
CHINA also identified the need for a comprehensive approach and holistic link between the agreement e2 80 99s different elements.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), highlighted that Cancun is the “time to deliver” and said the Group “cannot and will not accept further delays.” He noted that good progress has been made on adaptation, finance, REDD+, capacity building and technology, but that mitigation, and MRV are outstanding issues also required for a balanced package.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested conclusions that acknowledge the process and call for raised ambition, and with NORWAY, suggested a process beyond COP 24.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, identified possible sources of funding such as a Convention fund, a levy on international air travel, and an international fuel levy.
Opposed by \t\t\tSaudi Arabia, they also emphasized the importance of a “shared \t\t\tvision.” China appreciated the voluntary targets by the EU and \t\t\tNorway and urged other Annex I parties to come up with similar \t\t\tfigures.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: additional resources for the LEG; replenishing the LDCs Fund; and enhancing access to GCF funds.
BELARUS said these concerns are addressed under the definitions.
 On the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures, SAUDI ARABIA said the mandate was based on Decision 1/CP.16 (outcome of the work of the AWG-LCA) and that the proposed item would replace the agenda item on economic and social consequences of response measures.
With JORDAN, EL SALVADOR and CHINA, he said TEMs should focus on mitigation and adaption opportunities.
SAMOA expressed concern about upsetting the balance between access to information, transparency and public participation, and safeguarding the sovereign rights of the Party.
The AFRICAN GROUP cautioned against placing additional burdens on developing countries.
INDONESIA noted the need for coordination between a finance board and the technical committees of thematic bodies.
The G-77/CHINA called for the involvement of non-Annex I Party experts in preparing non-Annex I communications.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said Paris Agreement market mechanisms should move beyond offsetting to contribute to overall mitigation and that proceeds should be directed towards adaptation, while non-market mechanisms should start with fossil fuel subsidy reform and the phase-out of inefficient and polluting technologies.
SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA opposed discussing markets at this stage.
Noting that benefits outweigh the costs, AUSTRALIA emphasized the need to capture benefits and build resilience.
Development and Transfer of Technology: The G-77/CHINA indicated that developing countries are constrained by lack of: necessary technologies and 93know-how 94; appropriate institutions and financial resources; and regular fora to exchange ideas and build positions.
During the meeting, US Secretary of State John Kerry encouraged participating ministers to come forward with robust climate targets for an ambitious international climate agreement in 2015, and to explore how to capture related co-benefits.
SPAIN stressed \t\tbroader participation on the basis of equity and flexible approaches, \t\tand sectoral  \t\tCDM.
 This item was discussed in informal consultations co-facilitated by Xiang Gao (China) and Andrew Rakestraw (US).
Supported by CHINA, he urged moving forward toward concrete actions by COP-6.
On bunker fuels, Spain, for the EU, Australia, Switzerland, the Gambia, Norway and others, called for consideration of this issue, with Norway adding that the new submission by the Cook Islands (FCCC/AWGLCA/2010/ MISC.2/Add.1) could be used to bridge the gaps in the issue of bunker fuels.
CHINA observed that the mandate of the AWG-LCA is not to establish mitigation goals but to promote the Convention’s implementation.
MOLDOVA sought clarification of its status as both an economy in transition and a non-Annex I country under the UNFCCC, in order to participate adequately in joint activities under the UNFCCC and Protocol.
NORWAY underscored the need to achieve a comprehensive, legally-binding outcome in Cancún, explaining that her country is flexible regarding whether the outcome will be one or two legal instruments, but that the key elements of the Kyoto Protocol must be retained.
The EU suggested that the findings of the CGE be presented by June 2001, to contribute to the review of guidelines so as to adopt improved guidelines for the second national communications at COP-7.
The GAMBIA presented on his country’s NAMAs, focusing on the energy and transport sectors.
Belize, for AOSIS, called for a goal for climate finance that will keep temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
SWITZERLAND, supported by BELIZE, said paragraph 84 should be grouped with paragraphs on transparency.
Commenting on this proposal, SAMOA suggested that the Party be required to provide the basis for confidentiality protection under domestic legislation and that potential conflicts of interest with an ERT member be dealt with before the team is formed.
INDONESIA noted the need to include discussion of intellectual property rights (IPR).
 Informal consultations, co-facilitated by Malcolm Ridout (UK), considered draft conclusions.
Acknowledging concerns with the draft governing instrument, JAPAN and COLOMBIA (on behalf of Costa Rica, Chile, Honduras, Dominican Republic, Peru and Panama), opposed reopening the document and requested the COP Presidency to conduct consultations.
 SAUDI ARABIA said Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 (adverse effects) should govern future actions, and that the AWG-KP should address possible funding, insurance and technology transfer arrangements to minimize adverse impacts on developing countries.
UGANDA, BURKINA FASO, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and SAMOA said not all issues could be advanced simultaneously and stated that waiting for a package would delay action.
BOLIVIA stated that the problem in Copenhagen was not the consensus rule but that the multilateral process was not respected and stressed the need to preserve the consensus rule.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for enhanced understanding of the nature and magnitude of consequences and for evaluating the effectiveness of existing tools for addressing negative impacts of response measures.
The US supported the use of national communications.
Kenya, for the African Group, and the EU called for guidance to promote progression.
The G-77/CHINA called for transparency on finance and MRV of support.
The US said the TAPs must draw from private and public sector, industry, academia and NGOs.
With SWITZERLAND, he called for a draft negotiating text by COP-5.
The G-77/CHINA, after considering comments to their initial proposal presented in the previous meeting, outlined two new proposals on the substantive issues, namely, the status of and guidance to the GEF.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for “common minimum guidance” regardless of the vehicle of communication used.
SINGAPORE highlighted that financial entities should focus on how to provide funding and technical entities should decide what to fund.
TUVALU and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP requested deletion of text that would allow Parties to "elect" the activities under Article 3.4 to be included in the first commitment period.
On links to the elements of the 2015 agreement, the US indicated openness to listing thematic areas identified in Decision 1/CP.17 (establishing the ADP), referring to these as “aspects of work,” if this helps provide assurances that these will be addressed in the 2015 agreement.
Supported by NORWAY, the EU and SWITZERLAND, he stressed the importance of a clear focus on NAPAs and policy level, rather than operational level, guidance to the GEF.
 \t\tPakistan, for the G-77/China, emphasized that the Convention and \t\tProtocol should remain the central multilateral platform for addressing \t\taction on climate change and cautioned against erosion or replacement \t\twith a less equitable post-2012 arrangement.
GABON stressed the crucial role of trust and confidence for an agreement in Copenhagen.
Regarding adjustments, AUSTRALIA said they are intended as an element of the Protocol ef bf bds compliance system.
The US highlighted progress on adaptation, technology, finance, anchoring mitigation pledges and on MRV/ICA, noting that the text provides the necessary balance to move forward.
CHINA acknowledged the importance of discussing legal issues, saying that an amendment to Protocol Annex B constitutes a legally-binding outcome under the Protocol track, and that a legally-binding outcome to strengthen the Convention’s implementation is acceptable for his country.
The G-77/CHINA said differences in the nature, scope, purpose of and participation in the three mechanisms should be decided before making decisions on modalities, operational and methodological issues and institutional arrangements.
On Objectives, SAUDI ARABIA sought the inclusion of specific text relating to Article 3.2 (demonstrable progress) and 3.14.
The EU said early completion of the work programme should be followed by a testing period to guarantee gradual refinement of guidelines and modalities.
CHINA stated that Annex II communications under-emphasize technology transfer.
ARGENTINA supported the proposal but clarified that all new items should be held in abeyance pending outcome of consultations, and suggested that dropping some issues could be an outcome of the consultations.
SINGAPORE underscored that the workshops should feed into the formal process but not be a substitute for it.
The US voiced concerns about the process.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, called on developed countries to prioritize ratification of the Doha Amendment, and fulfill their obligations with the aim of limiting temperature rise to below 1.5 c2 b0C to protect Mother Earth.
The \t\tNETHERLANDS and the US sought clarification on the proposed brochure and \t\tcalled for broad participation in the expert meeting.
Impacts of single projects in commitment period: In a proposal submitted to SBSTA (FCCC/SB/1998/MISC.1/Add.2) on Wednesday, 3 June, ICELAND expressed concern over the difficulties faced to small countries arising from the setting of quantified limits on single project emissions and called for the adoption of a threshold value for significant proportional impact and separate reporting of process emissions.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of several South and Central American countries, underscored ecosystem-based adaptation.
TUVALU drew attention to possible negative implications of tying adaptation finance to the completion of national communications.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified three levels of action: by developed and developing countries respectively, and cooperation between the two.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the Bahamas, for AOSIS, called for clear recognition that developing countries require additional support from developed countries to participate effectively in the MRV system.
Welcoming reference to the temperature goal, the EU emphasized operationalizing the goal, including with notions of peaking and quantified emission reductions.
JAPAN said disagreements over the compliance regime should not delay the Protocol 92s entry into force.
MEXICO said a Cancun outcome must be able to deliver immediate action for implementing the Convention and Protocol, and should constitute a building block towards reaching a legally-binding agreement.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed concern that many of the proposals appeared to be donor/recipient arrangements.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that national consultations on ratifying the Protocol should be completed by the end of the year.
The EU noted that if every mitigation action requires a regional and global review process, it would significantly undermine the purpose of the Protocol to take prompt mitigation actions and that the regional and global levels might not be the most appropriate levels at which to conduct assessments.
On decision-making, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested a simple majority system.
SWITZERLAND underlined that Annex I parties’ obligation is to “strive” to minimize impacts of policies and measures and that a process imposing restrictions on how sovereign countries create and implement policies is unadvisable.
The US stressed the need to work on in-country capacities, build strong partnerships with local stakeholders and incorporate capacity building into national strategies.
MAURITANIA said that it may be helpful to address the mechanisms for implementation of the Protocol separately to avoid blurring the delegates\' capacity and making the Secretariat\'s work difficult.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by POLAND, SWITZERLAND, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CANADA, advocated deleting a paragraph inviting Parties to consider and submit their views on the workshop, and on further action to advance the work on P&amp;Ms.
The EU, supported by NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, proposed procedures to enhance stakeholder participation, including through interventions and dialogues.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that the COP invite the IPCC to prepare guidelines for baselines.
\t\tRegarding the agenda item on SIDS, the US opposed inclusion of the item \t\ton the SBSTA agenda as it had already been considered at SB 22.
CHINA said that the reference to avoiding greenhouse gas emissions was unacceptable because they occur naturally.
SWITZERLAND identified clear policy and self-assessment as preconditions for technology transfer.
JAPAN called for the avoidance of duplication of work on finance.
CANADA, the GAMBIA, AUSTRALIA and the SOLOMON ISLANDS endorsed the LEG work programme.
PAKISTAN underscored patent pools and time-limited patents, as well as national incentives in developed countries to promote engagement of IPR holders with developing countries.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that some Annex I parties have not submitted information on their QELROs for the second commitment period, highlighting the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods in order to preserve the Protocol and its flexibility mechanisms.
NORWAY proposed establishing a discussion group in Poznan on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in Poznan, as a follow-up to the Accra workshop.
BRAZIL proposed the consideration of diversification of NAMAs.
 EU, Canada, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, France, Germany, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, and the Netherlands presented updates on achieving their 2020 emissions reduction targets.
 AUSTRALIA stated that any protocol must address all GHGs, sources and sinks in a comprehensive manner, must address all elements in the BM in practical implementation measures, and must reflect the interlinking nature of the features and aims of the BM.
On numbers, Jürgen Lefevre (EU) reported that text on Annex B had been streamlined to include only two options and that options on Protocol Article 3.9 (future commitment periods) although not clean, reflect political choices.
 France, on behalf of the EU, and supported by Poland and Hungary, urged COP-1 to map out a protocol mandate, which would establish an open-ended ad hoc working group, require a report for COP-2 and set guidelines for conclusions.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, noted a COP \t\tdecision earlier in the day on an SBI agenda item on technology \t\ttransfer.
With AUSTRALIA and CANADA, she said a discussion on institutional mechanisms is premature.
The EU favored a general reference to the Party 92s "obligations under the Kyoto Protocol."
The UK also outlined its efforts to upscale international action through, inter alia, climate finance and action on REDD+.
AUSTRALIA urged moving forward on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text and expressed hesitation over working on the basis of text proposals being considered by the G-77/China.
SAUDI ARABIA disagreed with the timeframe and suggested SB-20.
In elements for a draft COP/ MOP-1 decision on this matter, the EU, Switzerland and Norway disagreed over a US proposal, supported by Saudi Arabia, New Zealand and Australia, to include text on ensuring that adjustment procedures are conservative so that Parties would not be unduly penalized.
NORWAY stated that a thorough analysis was clearly needed, but sufficient time for the negotiation process must be ensured.
AUSTRALIA said her country hopes to see a legally-binding treaty anchoring commitments by all major economies and that Durban should be a step towards that vision.
GERMANY replaced mandatory with “required” approach to policies and measures.
On the question of funding for adaptation, UNDP noted that GEF is working on operationalizing an adaptation funding window that will have US$50 million in the next budget cycle (2005-2007).
IRAN also proposes a compensation mechanism for adverse impacts of response measures.
 \t\tQUANTIFIED EMISSION REDUCTION COMMITMENT FOR BELARUS:
Nigeria, for the G-77/China, said the draft decision could not be used as the basis of negotiation, emphasizing that it did not contain sufficient guidance on operational procedures.
The EU said the Protocol’s text should be kept in its current form to the greatest extent possible with the addition of some new text as needed.
Much of \t\tthe debate centered on an EU proposal, supported by several others, that \t\tfunding from the LDC Fund should support priority adaptation activities \t\tidentified in the National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs) that \t\tare 93additional 94 to activities that would be undertaken to respond to \t\tclimate variability.
SAINT LUCIA, with TUVALU, expressed concern about taking up technical issues without further political clarity.
The US underlined the fact that EITs have commitments to reduce emissions, and suggested using the Protocol mechanisms to support capacity building.
AUSTRALIA noted the value of the synthesis of views on a future work programme on methodological work and, with the EU, stressed the need for a data interface.
Describing the Paris Agreement as an enhanced regime guided by equity and CBDR, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, outlined as core elements of the outcome, inter alia, finance, including the full operationalization of Paris Agreement Article 9.5 (ex ante finance transparency).
On the issue of supplementarity, JAPAN and the US urged against renegotiating the Protocol.
KENYA and UGANDA appealed for a special fund for developing countries other than LDCs.
AUSTRALIA noted several priority areas for SBSTA including: work towards a protocol; in-depth review of Annex I Parties communications and preparation of guidelines for non-Annex I Parties; and the synthesis of IPCC findings.
AUSTRIA asked how to address \t\ttransport emissions using market-based mechanisms.
 GERMANY said policies and measures should be driven by quantified targets in an agreed time frame.
CHINA did not support this.
INDIA highlighted ambitious targets by Annex I countries as a central feature of a successful agreement.
 IRAN, on behalf of the Asian Group, said the Chair\'s proposal on the number of TAPs is acceptable, but no consensus on distribution of panel members exists.
NEW ZEALAND noted that party pledges are based on different assumptions.
UGANDA endorsed the need for awareness raising.
 \t\t\tGermany, for the EU, said the work done during AWG 3 and input from \t\t\tthe IPCC have provided a solid foundation on which to proceed.
POLAND said that there is a need to conduct further work on emission factors since these differ for different sectors, between and within countries.
SINGAPORE underscored that in order to strengthen the multilateral rules-based system, the UNFCCC should respect the mandates of, not dictate to, other organizations, such as IMO and ICAO.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed that the work of AWG-LCA has important intergenerational implications in the context of sustainable development.
While the US, Canada and \t\tothers sought stronger language on developing country \t\taction/commitments, the G-77/China opposed this, and instead sought to \t\tplace the focus on language dealing with Annex I commitments.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, underscored that all developing countries are vulnerable to the impacts of current and potential response measures.
On the status of the CACAM group of countries under the UNFCCC, Chair Stoycheva said she would continue to consult informally and prepare draft conclusions.
BHUTAN proposed including reference to the specific and special circumstances of LDCs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, invited parties to consider how the group could access ocean thermal energy technology from Japan, the US and France.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, underscored the urgency of providing guidance in order to operationalize the Fund.
On project monitoring, BOLIVIA questioned how to estimate and control leakage, and URUGUAY noted that there is a need to minimize negative leakage.
ARGENTINA and URUGUAY underlined the importance of addressing the agricultural sector.
The US supported a reference to “accountable” governance, which had not been included in the final draft.
She proposed that an MCP should “provide advice to Parties on facilitating and promoting implementation.” The EU and EGYPT insisted on bracketing the US proposal.
SAMOA stressed language on the complementarity of the Funds and the operational guidance from the COP.
AZERBAIJAN asked his insertions to be incorporated into the reflection note.
JAPAN said more clarification was needed on concepts, such as TNAs, and pointed to divergent views on whether financial support should be strengthened by establishing a new institution.
  Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of this issue, while AUSTRALIA, the EU and JAPAN stressed the need to avoid duplicating work under the SBSTA agenda item on Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
On the scope, the G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, suggested identifying areas, which are new to countries, like NAMAs and CCS.
The US suggested that the paragraph be consistent with the Committee\'s mandate and publication of recommendations.
Responding to questions by BRAZIL and CHINA on the possibility of implementing a 30% emission reduction by 2020, he noted Switzerland e2 80 99s willingness to increase ambition, but called for contributions by all parties.
TUVALU expressed worry that there had not yet been substantive discussions on loss and damage.
ARGENTINA supported Option C, noting its relationship to forest conservation, the Convention to Combat Desertification and recovery of soils.
There were divergent views over whether to delete reference to "progress made," with the G-77/CHINA preferring language indicating that little or no progress has been made in implementing decision 5/CP.7 (adverse effects).
JAPAN outlined the Kyoto Initiative to strengthen assistance for developing countries in their efforts to combat global warming, to be operated through the national Official Development Assistance program.
On finance, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and the US stated developed countries should meet their obligations, and that others in a position to do so should contribute.
The EU stated that differentiation is already applied under the CDM, for instance, concerning the LDCs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the 1.5ºC target is at risk and urgent decisions must be taken.
SAUDI ARABIA called for progress on the issue of the impacts on developing countries arising from countries 92 responses to climate change.
 In the brief discussion on this matter, the EU supported the recommendation that the Secretariat should be attached to the UN without being incorporated into any department or programme.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted a need for comparable progress across the board and called for stronger engagement on key finance-related issues.
 \t\tCHINA, supported by BRAZIL and MALAYSIA, \t\turged Parties not to revisit definitions agreed on at COP-9.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions and said he will submit a proposal concerning the Russian Federation amendment, which was not accepted in this session, in time for consideration at the second session.
The COOK ISLANDS called for the IMO and ICAO to continue their consultations with SIDS.
PAKISTAN suggested a technical briefing on this topic.
INDONESIA called for legally binding emission reduction commitments by developed countries, highlighting that reducing emissions under domestic legislation is not consistent with the BAP.
Kenya, for the G-77/China, suggested re-organizing the \t\tdocument under sub-headings, and circulated proposed changes and \t\tadditions.
The EU highlighted that agreement is needed on national reference levels, discount factors and whether specific activities would remain voluntary or mandatory for reporting.
The G-77/CHINA identified the need for differentiation between the work in the contact group and SBI work before beginning negotiations.
CHINA called for launching a 2015-2020 work programme to review achievement of pre-2020 commitments.
On mitigation, AILAC supported a quantified or quantifiable unilateral component in “features” under the mitigation article.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for simplified procedures for SIDS to access resources to implement climate actions.
MALAYSIA and \t\tINDONESIA supported a two-track process and continuing the Dialogue.
On linkages, the G-77/CHINA, supported by many developing countries, said finance should be reflected in all relevant sections of the text.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted differences of opinion on sectoral approaches, aviation and maritime emissions, biofuels and nuclear power.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, stressed that the core mandate of the ongoing negotiations is to define ambitious quantified emission reduction targets for future commitment periods.
On paragraphs 7-12 (INDCs), JAPAN said the text still did not provide clarity on the upfront information to be presented in INDCs.
IRAN said that an over-emphasis on long-term activities must not undermine the short-term activities in developing countries.
CHINA highlighted that credits should not be used as offsets.
UGANDA, with MALAWI, noted the need for improved access to funding for the LDCs.
South \t\tAfrica, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the Special Climate Change Fund \t\tand Adaptation Fund.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for a clear signal that the Protocol is “not dead.” She underscored the need for the Barcelona session to restore credibility and confidence in the will of the international community to tackle climate change and for the work of the AWG-KP to be brought in line with its work programme in order to make progress.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), supported: a process to scale up the ambition of mitigation pledges; a second commitment period; a Durban mandate for a legally-binding agreement in accordance with the Bali Action Plan; operationalizing the new institutions established in Cancun; and reviewing the adequacy of the long-term global goal for emission reductions.
SINGAPORE underscored challenges to small countries and the need for energy technologies, and the lack of recognition of voluntary mitigation measures already undertaken by developing countries.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for including funding for technology development and transfer in the agreement, and for creating a new mechanism.
France, on behalf of the European Union (EU), stressed that domestic actions should be the main means for fulfilling developed country commitments.
The AFRICAN GROUP highlighted capacity building as central to all the building blocks.
BOLIVIA said a work programme up to 2013 should aim to find common accounting rules, methodologies and tools based on the Kyoto Protocol.
COLOMBIA said a single, comprehensive regime is needed.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, supported by BRAZIL, BARBADOS and TUVALU, said the draft decision would lead to special dispensations prior to the Kyoto Protocol\'s entry into force and could create an incentive for emissions increases in Annex I countries.
The EU called for deeper emission reduction commitments for \t\tall developed countries and 93further fair and effective 94 contributions \t\tby developing countries.
On a paragraph urging all parties to the Kyoto Protocol to ratify and implement the Doha Amendment, Belarus suggested “calling upon” parties to consider the “possibility” of ratifying the amendment and to “clarify all existing ambiguities that might hamper its implementation.” The EU said issues around Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8 (methodological issues under the Protocol) should first be resolved.
GUATEMALA supported the prompt establishment of an adaptation fund.
JAPAN, supported by KAZAKHSTAN, BOTSWANA, the US, CANADA, BENIN, ICELAND, HONDURAS and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested that COP-5 President Szyszko (Poland) be empowered to appoint a special facilitator to assist negotiations and help Parties realize the BAPA by COP-6.
UGANDA said that developing countries had no objections to \t\treducing emissions but were asking about the cost and impact on \t\tdevelopment.
BELGIUM noted the need for an outreach specialist in the Secretariat.
In the \t\tdiscussion, CUBA asked if forecasting could have prevented the heat-wave \t\timpacts.
SOUTH AFRICA cautioned against using global economic instability as an excuse for delaying the delivery of means of implementation, and stressed the need to focus on capitalizing the GCF.
The mandated events in Marrakesh, including the facilitative dialogue on finance, and pre-2020 ambition and implementation are expected to help provide clarity on the US$100 billion pledge, and address the concerns of many developing countries that pre-2020 action might be overshadowed by negotiations on the post-2020 period.
CHINA, supported by BOLIVIA and Malawi, for the LDCs, cautioned against combining REDD-plus with NAMAs.
Argentina, as the host of COP-4, has an obligation to work for consensus and is in the process of consulting with all regional groups, particularly the G-77/China and GRULAC.
Delegates also commented on a new announcement by US President Bush on 16 April, setting a target of stabilizing US greenhouse gas emissions by 2025.
No agreement was reached by the time the SBI closing plenary \t\twas held on 11 December, when Canada, the EU and the G-77/China \t\texpressed disappointment at the outcome.
Observing that trends in emissions levels since 1990 left "no grounds for complacency," the EU said the document 92s suggestions merited further consideration, and proposed that draft conclusions be considered at SB-17.
BOLIVIA and others underscored national and sub-national policies.
BOTSWANA stressed the need for adequate time for notifying and inviting the experts, and, supported by CHINA, stressed the need for regional distribution of experts.
Noting that the Protocol explicitly recognizes the role of forests as potential sources and sinks of carbon, the US argued that there is a growing consensus for the full inclusion of agricultural and grazing land, and broad recognition of the central role of forests, although less agreement on how to account for forests within the Protocol.
Noting that the text “manages to strike a delicate balance between very difficult issues,” South Africa, for BASIC, said the outcome provides a solid foundation for work in 2015.
The US said a shared vision should be optimistic, pragmatic and reflect evolving scientific and economic realities.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed ensuring that parties’ capacities improve over time.
COLOMBIA highlighted a policy document submitted by various Latin American Parties aimed at promoting more effective CDM mechanisms.
 In a paragraph dealing with outstanding issues on QELROs, KENYA, supported by the US, FRANCE and GERMANY, noted that it was left open whether the level of emission reductions should be politically or scientifically based.
On the way forward to COP 19, Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by NEPAL, INDONESIA and KENYA, proposed: submissions, including on energy policies and technologies with emphasis on the scale of emission reductions, barriers and strategies to overcome those barriers; a technical paper compiling parties’ submissions on specific problems they face, with corresponding solutions from technical expert meetings; a technical workshop; and a ministerial roundtable at COP 19.
AOSIS stressed addressing adaptation technologies.
CHINA stressed that recategorizing developing countries would amount to reinterpretation of the Convention.
NEW ZEALAND identified the need to finalize the post-2012 \t\trules before finalizing the targets.
The UK, Luxembourg, the US, and Switzerland called for specific ToR that estimate the resource implications of the task group’s activities.
The Gambia, for LDCs, urged those Annex I parties that have not done so to submit their QELROs.
UKRAINE, supported by CANADA, COLOMBIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others, proposed a table or matrix to compare the various proposals and criteria for market mechanisms.
SWAZILAND preferred, and parties agreed, to work on the basis of the Secretariat’s proposals for consolidation, which were, after examination, subsequently rejected.
94 The Gambia, supported by the UK, \t\t\tBelgium, US and others, called for quantifications.
NEW ZEALAND and VENEZUELA suggested providing ministers with focused questions.
BRAZIL stressed the AWG-KP’s mandate and identified the AWG-LCA as the appropriate forum for discussing developing country actions.
  On this item (FCCC/SBI/2010/10 and MISC.2), the EU said it looked forward to the completion of the terms of reference to enable the review of the Adaptation Fund.
In response, SINGAPORE noted that consideration of national circumstances would take into account high vulnerability, assets, capacity and constraints that may impact what a country can contribute to global mitigation efforts.
Following a short break to allow group consultations, the G-77/CHINA disagreed with some of the areas identified as having convergence.
Ecuador, speaking for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), urged avoiding a gap between commitment periods.
He addressed concerns over US domestic climate politics, declaring that “success in Cancún does not hinge on US legislation.”
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted adaptation to adverse effects and response measures.
The EU, AOSIS, ICELAND, NEW \t\tZEALAND, NORWAY and others called for a comprehensive global agreement.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said that the ADP should work towards a new protocol applicable to all, based on the latest science, be inclusive and contain strong commitments and deadlines.
The EU called for attention to markets, emphasizing the need for coherence in the guidance with those under APA item 3 (mitigation section) and APA item 5 (transparency framework).
 The US said that the BM is explicit regarding developing country commitments and no new commitments were being proposed.
Barbados, for AOSIS, cautioned against reopening the GCF governing instrument.
AUSTRALIA underscored the need for a clear understanding of impacts, vulnerability and insurance mechanisms to encourage positive adaptive actions.
Burkina Faso, for LDCs, supported categorization of countries.
The EU noted the importance of highlighting that financial resources should be raised by all countries to, at least, support domestic actions.
Delegates observed a moment of silence for the recent tragedies at the request of INDONESIA, on behalf of the G-77/China.
 ARMENIA, for the CACAM group of countries, said the group was seeking clarification on the definition of the term "developing countries," and on their status in the context of UNFCCC decisions, including those taken at COP-6.
 LEBANON announced her country’s intention to increase the share of renewable energy to 12% by 2020.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, suggested starting work on all items except item 8 (further matters related to implementation of the Paris Agreement).
OECD countries also termed current commitments inadequate and recommended negotiating a protocol or other future commitments.
The UK drew attention to a statement of intent on REDD by various developing and developed countries planned for Friday, and highlighted the UK’s contribution of £100 million for forestry activities.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and CHINA, but opposed by JAPAN, stressed that the language “with a view to avoiding a gap between the first and second commitment periods” is too weak, noting that in decision 1/CMP.1 (consideration of Annex I parties\' commitments for subsequent periods under Protocol Article 3.9), parties have already agreed “to ensure” that there is no such gap.
CHINA said any modification to the uniform reporting format should not affect decisions already taken on AIJ, particularly those relating to funding and technology transfer.
AUSTRALIA suggested recognizing that the provision of finance and support should be treated holistically.
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.4.InformalNote) of 24 July 2015, ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) identified the objective of the Bonn session as the production of a clearer understanding and articulation of the elements of the “Paris package” with regard to workstream 1 (2015 agreement) and workstream 2 (pre-2020 ambition), including by the development of bridging proposals and the crystallization of options for further negotiation.
GUYANA stressed, inter alia, that payments need to come from a variety of sources and identified the need for a new international architecture that promotes coherence and consistency of financing.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against a selective approach to the SAR findings.
OECD countries in general supported a comprehensive protocol on all GHGs, stating that negotiations should begin at COP-1.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: reference to Agreement Article 4.6 (LDCs’ and SIDS’ special circumstances) in guidance for the mitigation section; loss and damage in the transparency framework; and including loss and damage in the overarching scope of, and as a source of input for, the GST.
He stressed that the “polluter pays principle” is not the “polluter, who knew he was polluting, pays principle.” NEW ZEALAND noted that the discussion is about “developed country parties,” not Annex-I parties.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed the need for concerted efforts by both Annex I and non-Annex I parties.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a five-year commitment period; Annex I parties moving to the top end of their pledges and beyond, and dropping their conditionalities; provisional application of the Protocol amendments to be adopted in Doha; and limiting participation in the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments under the second commitment period.
SWAZILAND reported on Tuesday’s spin-off group on pre-2020 “milestones” for capacity building, highlighting convergence on the importance of: clarity on what capacity-building needs are; prompt, effective, coherent and coordinated delivery; MRV of capacity-building support; and a long-term and sustainable perspective on capacity building.
The EU proposed discontinuing the Secretariat \t\treview.
BRAZIL requested that AAU carryover issues be resolved separate from discussions of level of ambition.
The US also asked for clarification on inclusion of item \t\t10 (IPCC special report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage).
The SBI adopted conclusions (FCCC/SBI/ 2002/L.13), recording that the EU did not agree with the conclusions, since the text was introduced only at this SBI session and had not previously been available.
SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA, KUWAIT and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES stated that the workshop outlined in the COP-7 decision addressed Article 3.14, and said a separate workshop should be held on Article 2.3.
The EU stressed that any discussion on the JI operational model must not prejudge the design of the post-2012 climate change framework.
Austria, with Spain, the UK, Italy, Brazil and China, proposed deleting reference to e2 80 9cfuture e2 80 9d before cumulative CO2 emissions, noting cumulative emissions represent the past and present as well.
She called on Annex I countries to implement specific policies and measures and said that the EU is determined to live up to its commitments and supports the Ministerial Declaration.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for public registries to provide accessible information on parties’ NDCs, and suggested linking the adaptation communications and NDC registries.
The US highlighted the importance of inventories and sought revisions for guidelines on policies and measures, national circumstances and technology transfer.
NORWAY said the workshop revealed that credits for carbon sinks under Protocol Article 3.3 might be negative, while the forest, as a whole, remains a sink.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, further expressed concern with references to “those in a position to do so” and called for the reinstatement of adaptation co-benefits coming in the “form” of mitigation.
The US supported the concept of the workshop but noted, with Belgium and Germany, budgetary concerns, particularly travel.
 On capacity building, China, for the G-77/China, supported further discussion on, inter alia: institutions, financial mechanisms, monitoring and performance tools.
SOUTH AFRICA recognized the role of markets for cost-effectiveness, but said they should remain supplemental to domestic actions.
The US stressed the need for provisions on MRV and on international consultation and analysis, indicating that reaching agreement on a fully operational system is essential this year.
The EU also stated that these budgetary matters cannot be properly considered in Plenary, and recommended establishing an open-ended group to consider Annex I.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged scaling up finance for adaptation and equitable compensation for those adversely impacted by response measures.
IRAN said the SAR provided an opportunity to consider socioeconomic impacts, technology transfer and policy measures for sustainable economic growth.
Responding to questions by FIJI and NORWAY on uncertainties related to LULUCF accounting and their impact on achieving the US e2 80 99s 2020 target, he highlighted improvements in data and accounting methods, and harmonization of approaches across agencies since the publication of the country e2 80 99s first biennial report as sources of increased confidence.
Calling for focus on rules and guidance, including on the NDCs, the global stocktake and transparency, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested conceptual discussions on how to take work forward.
SENEGAL, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, the PHILIPPINES and HONDURAS specifically supported the AOSIS draft protocol.
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, cited marginalization in the process, and requested that their special needs be considered.
BRAZIL, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS and other developing countries, emphasized that IAR and ICA respond to different objectives.
The UK supported inclusion of a range of representative concentration pathways, while Estonia called for addressing the economic and social opportunities embedded in these pathways.
New proposals for finance and technology, such as a Convention financial mechanism and a technology transfer mechanism, were introduced by the G-77/China, in addition to the EU proposal on technology transfer.
 The Gambia, for LDCs, urged those Annex I parties that have not done so to submit their QELROs.
NEW ZEALAND sought increased transparency in the reporting process and suggested the formation of a contact group to revise reporting guidelines.
The EU suggested a new standing body that would consider implementation questions, although decision-making power should remain with the COP.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, called for the full implementation of NAPAs and the LDC work programme.
 The EU supported a multilateral, ambitious rules-based system with broad participation, notably from major economies.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern regarding the limited progress on UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects).
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, supported the continuation of consultations but said that the AGBM 2 already had a heavy schedule.
NORWAY and ARGENTINA inquired about addressing emissions from bunker fuels and COP President’s Special Representative Hedegaard explained that text would be available in the afternoon.
The AOSIS amendment concurred with the Chair\'s text that the AGBM should decide at its second session on: the work necessary in support of the analysis and assessment; who would undertake it; and, completion dates.
SINGAPORE said the updates provide a “sobering reality” of what is happening in the AWG-LCA, and that we have “crystallized our divergences,” but have not made much progress towards convergence.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SOLOMON ISLANDS and BRAZIL, and opposed by NEW ZEALAND, suggested parties could submit inputs for an information document.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CUBA, EGYPT, INDONESIA, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others, opposed by the US and the EU, called for establishing a spin-off group on finance.
NEW ZEALAND reiterated her country’s proposal for the use of a Declaration Model, in the interim, which gives parties the platform to publically declare what units they are using, produce the methodology for their generation and show how these units represent genuine, verifiable emission reductions.
JAPAN and the EU highlighted coordination \t\twith the second Protocol review under Article 9.
On long-term and global aspects, Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested a regular review of the elements under the section on the basis of science and, with CHINA, referencing the 1.5 c2 b0C and 2 c2 b0C goals.
SWITZERLAND said AR4 SYR should present findings since TAR.
SLOVAKIA, on behalf of the VISEGRAD Group of central European countries, said rules on JI and CDM should enter the implementing phase simultaneously.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for regional adaptation platforms, while NEW ZEALAND suggested strengthening existing regional initiatives.
President Barack Obama, US, recognized the role of his country in creating climate change, stating that the US “embraces its responsibility to do something about it.” He called for the agreement to, inter alia, create a durable framework, pave the way for progressively ambitious targets and ensure countries in need receive support.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to update a technical paper on mitigation benefits of actions and develop a synthesis on thematic areas relating to mitigation opportunities, and options for cooperation and accelerated action, BRAZIL suggested referring to e2 80 9cmitigation potential, opportunities, options and instruments.
BARBADOS observed that both technical workshops and expert meetings are required and that outputs of any expert meetings should be brought back to a formal meeting.
The AFRICAN GROUP suggested identifying causes of non-compliance and facilitating technical and capacity-building support.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stated that NAMA would be driven by host countries, partly addressing the geographic distribution problem.
SAMOA noted the work on the concept of a true-up period in the compliance group, and said the group on Articles 5,7,and 8 should consider technical constraints on its length.
SWITZERLAND requested all countries to engage in the GEF replenishment discussions.
After agreeing to revisions proposed by the G-77/CHINA and the US, parties agreed to forward the text for adoption by the SBI plenary.
The US recommended focusing work at the meeting on the WGs’ outlines rather than the scope of the SYR.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the US, suggested referring to promoting achievement of the FCCC 92s ultimate objective.
CAN emphasized the need for: raised ambition; a roadmap for the US$100 billion pledge; scaled up pre-2020 targets; and agreement on support for loss and damage.
Regarding the report on GHG inventory data for 1990–2007, China, for the G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, expressed concern at the trend of increase of GHG emissions in Annex I parties and suggested reflecting this concern in SBI conclusions.
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), stressed financial issues as central to the success of COP 20, urging greater predictability and clarity on the mobilization by developed countries of US$100 billion per year by 2020.
Supported by KENYA and IETA, he \t\talso highlighted non-renewable biomass.
 Ahead of COP-6, the US has circulated a non-paper which emphasizes the issue of a "new dialogue" on developing country commitments.
The AFRICAN GROUP added that carbon markets would collapse without an agreement, and said African soil should not become the Protocol’s “graveyard.”
Supported by GUATEMALA, she proposed requesting the Bureau to make arrangements for a high-level segment and that the high-level segment be held between AWG-KP 14/AWG-LCA 12 in August and COP 16.
Assistance was requested for: finance and know-how (MOROCCO); technical needs (BURKINA FASO); longer-term implementation (CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, ARGENTINA); vulnerability (ARGENTINA); emission mitigation in other sectors and formulation of implementation programmes (URUGUAY, ARGENTINA); and second national communications (SENEGAL, MEXICO).
The EU preferred "a compliance system for the Kyoto Protocol" in order to reflect a comprehensive approach to dealing with compliance.
Noting significant improvements since 2006, Australia and the US disagreed, welcoming the work programme proposed by the TFI Co-Chairs.
SAMOA said it did not share all of the concerns expressed by Saudi Arabia.
The EU, supported by Germany, Switzerland and Canada, proposed a working group to address budgetary matters and asked that it review both the 1995 and 1996/97 budgets.
VENEZUELA stressed that the footnote is “indispensable” for her country’s support for the adoption of the agenda.
BRAZIL noted the proposal\'s political element: that future objectives be established in terms of global mean surface temperature change, as a mechanism for apportioning the burden.
She highlighted that AOSIS will not go to Copenhagen “just to reaffirm the status quo” and stressed that there are no legal impediments for concluding work in Copenhagen.
Delegates also raised concerns about accommodation in Poznan, with INDIA noting “astronomical” prices.
The EU called for the agreement to send signals to the private sector.
CANADA and SWITZERLAND supported a proposal made by New Zealand requesting SBSTA to explore the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects of how adaptation and mitigation each link to other issues, such as sustainable development and UNFCCC Article 2 (objective).
The US said the adaptation and mitigation cycles may be different.
UGANDA urged climate change financing commitments on a scale similar to current economic stimulus packages.
GHANA stressed MRV on technology transfer, suggesting reporting guidelines, annual communications by Annex I parties, and linkages to the Convention review mechanism.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, and China said sections on market and non-market approaches, and new market-based mechanisms could prejudge discussions under the SBs.
SWITZERLAND elaborated on his proposal for a global levy of USD 2 per tonne of carbon dioxide.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed flexibility, suggesting option 1 with elements of option 3.
On the supplementarity section of the text, BRAZIL, supported by PERU and opposed by JAPAN and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed specifying a cap of 30% on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
The EU and others noted that new market mechanisms were one of the “approaches” and therefore could not be precluded from the discussion.
The US is no longer the world’s largest emitter, meaning others can become climate leaders.
He suggested new EU directives should focus on non-ETS structures, including possible carbon taxation.
SINGAPORE and PAKISTAN said developed countries should demonstrate leadership.
Chile, for AILAC, proposed that the scope of contributions be defined clearly in the new agreement providing different nuances to mitigation, adaption and MOI.
SWITZERLAND noted concerns regarding testing delays and said \t\t\tresource issues should be addressed as a matter of urgency.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and others, suggested moving toward a draft decision and outlined three pillars: emphasizing the Convention principles; considering adaptation the core; and means of implementation to link agricultural adaptation to technology transfer and finance for capacity building.
The US, the EU and others expressed satisfaction with the work of the facilitators, and Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to switch to a full negotiating mode and have a workable negotiating text in Bangkok.
The EU noted the need for urgency in negotiations, while calling for care and consistency in addressing technical issues.
The EU emphasized that the “core” of the negotiation is how to mobilize effective financing and that parties need to discuss linkages between sources of funding to create a coherent system.
The US opposed references to the right to sustainable development.
The G-77/CHINA said the fourth review provides an opportunity to look at gaps in implementation of obligations in a comprehensive manner.
Switzerland, for the EIG, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, opposed by Iran, for the LMDCs, supported holding a pre-sessional roundtable.
\t\t\tNORWAY, TUVALU and SWITZERLAND called for reference to leakage and \t\t\tnon-permanence of carbon sinks.
CHINA called for reflecting the discussions from the informal session in August.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged parties to increase financial contributions to implement adaptation work and to complete the review of the WIM.
On compliance, AOSIS stressed the need for initiation beyond a self-trigger or a committee trigger based on the party’s consent.
INDIA sought assurance that views on streamlining be captured in a separate, evolving document.
TUVALU, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that consequential amendments, which arise from the amendment of Annex B, must be considered to ensure legal consistency with the Kyoto Protocol.
A contact group agreed to China’s request to include a \t\t\treference to year-to-year variability in carbon dioxide \t\t\tconcentrations, as well as to the UK’s proposal to attribute \t\t\tincreased atmospheric concentrations to carbon dioxide emissions.
CANADA said that the document represents a step forward but considerable work remains on mitigation.
Following informal consultations on the LDC Fund, delegates agreed to a draft decision on additional guidance.
  Regarding current and planned activities, NEW ZEALAND said work on the exchange of information regarding the implemen ef bf bdtation of national systems should be elaborated.
The US suggested that the Secretariat convene a technical meeting on the common reporting format.
The EU and Norway called for eligibility requirements to be addressed.
The EU supported a bottom-up approach and building on broader knowledge.
China, for G-77/CHINA, opposed, arguing that the mandate from the ADP Co-Chairs is to continue streamlining.
On policy signals and enabling environments, the US called for including text: encouraging parties to build effective enabling environments; calling for elimination of public incentives for high-carbon investment; and recognizing that climate finance flows in all directions.
 JAPAN regretted the lack of decision on TAPs and suggested considering initiating a process with a roster of experts.
Statements by observer States, IGOs, NGOs and UN bodies: On progress made in climate change negotiations, PALAU said it was disappointed at the lack of progress being made at COP-5.
SPAIN emphasized the importance of recognizing developing countries 92 needs.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, commended the new negotiating text, highlighting that it brings together issues that were close to conclusion at COP 15.
NORWAY added MRV and accounting systems.
BRAZIL worried that suspending CMA 1 would send the wrong political signal and delay consideration of issues.
SINGAPORE, supported by CHILE, the US, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COSTA RICA, COLOMBIA and the GAMBIA, reiterated his proposal, clarifying that it aims to maintain a distinction between the two agenda items and retains item 4, while adding the words “in accordance with Decision 1/CP.17.”
Japan, Australia, Canada, the US and EU \t\tsupported one contact group.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said that the CBDR principle could be reinforced, while enabling a wider group of parties to play “a fair role” in reducing emissions, considering countries’ demographics, resource endowments and other factors.
On a paragraph with three options relating to enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition, including a possible forum or mechanism to assess implementation, the EU, with the US, Canada, India, Australia, New Zealand, Iran, Algeria, for the Arab Group, Belarus, Japan and Switzerland, preferred the first option, suggesting the COP reiterates its resolve, as set out in Decision 1/CP.19, paragraphs 3 and 4, to accelerate the full implementation of the decisions constituting the agreed outcome pursuant to decision 1/CP.13 (Bali Action Plan) and enhance ambition in the pre-2020 period in order to ensure the highest possible mitigation efforts under the Convention by all parties.
SAINT LUCIA called for a decision setting out the process towards a legally-binding outcome, indicated that the agenda item should remain open and suggested that the COP Presidency consider an inter-sessional process.
Parties started discussing a draft \t\tdecision on the periodicity of non-Annex I national communications, \t\tincluding a suggestion for a three-year cycle proposed by the EU, a \t\tfour-year cycle from draft text discussed during SBI-19, and a six-year \t\tcycle proposed by the G-77/China.
Acting IPCC Chair El Gizouli was universally lauded for his dedication to the IPCC, with many participants, including Mali, Saudi Arabia and the US, in addition to others, noting his personal sacrifice in taking over the role of IPCC Chair in February 2015.
COSTA RICA described its proposal for a Copenhagen Protocol and supported a legally-binding agreement.
BOLIVIA called for a compliance system for those countries exiting the Kyoto Protocol to ensure they are reducing their emissions, and highlighted equity and the right to development.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, also stressed the need to have text on market approaches, identifying new market mechanisms as a “core issue.” Chair Zammit Cutajar explained that such text had been left out due to an intended informal ministerial consultation, but that it would be included.
The EU underlined the importance of maximum participation in workshops.
CANADA preferred land-based accounting and noted that Article 3.4 represents an opportunity to deal with sinks in a comprehensive and symmetrical way.
Under both project-based mechanisms, NEW ZEALAND requested reference to cost effectiveness, administrative feasibility and perverse outcomes when discussing preferential treatment of project activities based on co-benefit criteria.
Discussions also addressed: mechanisms to address loss and damage; support provided to developing countries, especially LDCs and small island developing states (SIDS); and reporting.
In response to a query by Chair Chow, the G-77/CHINA defined a draft negotiating text as 93the penultimate stage in the text that the COP will finally adopt.
Australia, the EU, New Zealand, Switzerland, the US, Canada, Japan and others expressed reservations about this sub-section.
On loss and damage, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, with the LDCs, proposed moving text on loss and damage to a new section.
On institutional arrangements, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA, INDIA, IRAN, TANZANIA, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others, opposed by CANADA, JAPAN, the EU, the US and others, supported the establishment of an international capacity-building mechanism.
India, China, Bolivia, Nicaragua, Viet Nam, Belarus, Iran and Algeria, for the Arab Group, preferred the first option, in which the COP would decide that all parties, when communicating to the Secretariat their INDCs, will provide the information necessary to facilitate the clarity, transparency and understanding of their INDCs.
The US said using temperature change as the sole indicator of responsibility ignored relevant socio-economic factors.
Noting the need for rules on markets and LULUCF, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for broad and effective participation of all parties under a single, new legally-binding agreement.
While some SIDS wanted a specific \t\tCOP agenda item on SIDS 92 issues, including on the Mauritius Strategy, \t\tother parties, including the US, argued that it was covered under other \t\titems and should not be dealt with under multiple agendas, or should \t\teven be removed altogether.
Underscoring the impact of the 2011 earthquake on the country’s energy sector emissions, JAPAN noted that a firm target for 2020 will depend on developments in restarting the country’s nuclear plants.
In contrast, the US said that it had focused on \t\testablishing the modalities for the initial list of activities to be \t\tdelivered in the first two years of the programme.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed, inter alia: the importance of adaptation for all parties; and aggressive mitigation to avoid increasing the adaptation burden.
AOSIS indicated that a \t\tfollow-up process for the Dialogue would involve forming a new body, and \t\tconsideration of its mandate, operation and timeframe for completing the \t\twork.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, requested restructuring the document, with sections in the following order: preamble; accelerated implementation process; TEP; and review.
When commenting on the Chair’s revised draft conclusions during the AWG-LCA closing plenary on Sunday, Sudan, for the G-77/China, suggested indicating that the AWG-LCA “continue to work in strict conformity with principles of the UN that are inclusive, democratic, transparent, open and legitimate.” The US noted that these principles are not found in the UN Charter and cautioned against “being loose” with legal text.
India and Thailand opposed negotiations that would begin to place new commitments on non- Annex I Parties and said the AOSIS protocol is the first step toward requiring Annex I countries to continue to meet their obligations.
JAMAICA noted that the oil exporting developing countries had presented a strong case relating to loss of income.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stated that INDCs and elements of the 2015 agreement are aspects of the same mandate, expressing concern over the presentation of two separate documents.
Some developing countries, opposed by the US, proposed removing language regarding efficiency and productivity of agricultural systems.
The group cleared the final remaining bracketed text after accepting an EU proposal, amended by the US and the G-77/China, to note that an invitation to Parties to provide the Secretariat with guidance on the scope of a proposed workshop "may include data, information and a decision-making framework."
Supported by AOSIS, he highlighted the need to allocate adequate time for discussing a shared vision in Copenhagen.
The PHILIPPINES stressed the need to maintain the distinctions between proposals in the consolidation of text.
CHINA and BOLIVIA said a comparison table is premature.
Noting that biodiversity, coral reefs and the existence of some cultures are threatened by global warming, PALAU called for immediate greenhouse gas emission reductions by all Parties.
  The Gambia, for the LDCs, emphasized the need for: a party-oriented approach that accommodates national circumstances; scientific evaluation of the adequacy of commitments; sufficient flexibility; and periodic review of commitments.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, with the \t\tDOMINICAN REPUBLIC, noted increased hurricane intensity.
He said that whereas the US is willing to be flexible in its positions, it will not compromise its principles aimed at ensuring that the implementation of the Protocol is achieved in a cost effective way, while ensuring environmental integrity.
BOLIVIA stressed that developed countries have accumulated an atmospheric debt and expressed hope for ambitious reduction targets consistent with the magnitude of the problem.
The EU, Switzerland, Australia and others highlighted the benefits of using standardized baselines under the CDM.
The consultations adjourned so that the G-77 could review the OECD comments and the Chair, Amb.
The US viewed paragraph 85 on efforts of non-state actors as belonging to contributions/commitments/actions.
INDONESIA supported parallel development of modalities, procedures and guidelines with those of the global stocktake and transparency.
With NEW ZEALAND and several others, he stressed the importance of environmental integrity.
The UK stressed the need to avoid maladaptation.
 The LDC drafting group continued its work, addressing the draft negotiating text on the establishment of an LDC expert group.
The EU stressed that none of the CACAM countries are included in Annex I, and said they therefore belong in the group of non-Annex I Parties.
BRAZIL said this would create more “hot air.” BANGLADESH, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and EGYPT stressed a single starting point.
The LDCs, the G-77/CHINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, JAPAN and others supported retaining text on improving access to CDM projects by specified host parties, while the EU preferred taking no decision.
The SBI met late at night to consider: Annex I national communications; capacity-building; implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects); the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM); arrangements for intergovernmental meetings; administrative and financial matters; the proposal by Croatia on land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF); and other matters.
AOSIS proposed considering improved access to the CDM by building on elements in the text related to positive lists of project activities and on text on financing validation, verification and certification of projects in certain host parties.
CANADA and the EU proposed the removal of specific percentages, as a compromise.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed a global goal for adaptation that would include both quantitative and qualitative aspects.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for successful completion of the AWG-KP in order to make progress on a new protocol under the ADP.
The EU said 80% of global emissions trading is based on the EU’s emissions trading scheme, which will continue operating regardless of a gap.
In the afternoon, ROMANIA noted a decrease in her country e2 80 99s total emissions since 2008, largely attributable to the economic downturn.
With GRENADA and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, CHINA emphasized the role of national governments and international organizations and said technology transfer should be on non- commercial and preferential terms.
He explained \t\t\tthat emissions from aviation will be included in the European Union \t\t\tEmissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and noted interest from California \t\t\tto link its carbon trading initiative to the EU ETS.
UKRAINE stated for the record that the report on national GHG inventory data for the period 1990 e2 80 932014 (FCCC/SBI/2016/19) does not address the issue of double-counting.
 On a proposal by Belarus to use 1990 as its base-year, the EU said only COP/MOP has authority to decide on the issue.
AOSIS identified areas in need of support for SIDS.
NEW ZEALAND said it was the first country belonging to the Umbrella Group that had announced its firm intention to ratify in 2002.
The US indicated that a new capacity-building mechanism is not necessary.
The G-77/China, the LDCs, AOSIS, China and Saint Lucia, opposed by Australia and Canada, urged anchoring the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the 2015 agreement.
NORWAY said ministers should be engaged in the process between the COPs.
Co-Chair Carruthers, with the US and China, said that the proposed text reflects a balance between giving flexibility to the new Bureau and the need to send a message to the scientific community.
\t\tThe G-77/CHINA noted it is an 93innovative solidarity fund, 94 the EU said \t\tit built 93new trust 94 among parties, JAPAN hoped the choice of \t\tinstitution will reflect the Fund 92s agreed principles and modalities, \t\tand TUVALU said the Fund will be 93a small lifeline to SIDS.
 Parties agreed that, in line with previous practice, this item will be kept open and COP 21 Vice-President Sylla will report to the closing plenary on proposals by Japan (FCCC/CP/2009/3), Tuvalu (FCCC/CP/2009/4), the US (FCCC/CP/2009/7), Australia (FCCC/CP/2009/5), Costa Rica (FCCC/CP/2009/6) and Grenada (FCCC/CP/2010/3).
Several members of the Umbrella Group noted their submission on elements of workstream 2, with the US identifying the role of non-state actors as an evolving element.
AUSTRALIA underlined the role of sinks.
Sergio Selaya Bonilla (Honduras) reported no consensus on a proposed EU amendment for majority voting.
He underscored that developed countries have yet to meet their Convention or Protocol obligations regarding mitigation and means of implementation (MOI), which the EU and Australia disputed in their cases.
On market size and structure, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested either defining or deleting the term "hot air" in the text.
AUSTRALIA expressed support for approaches that have the capacity to accept assessed contributions from a broad base of parties.
MEXICO is currently developing a national action plan and stressed timely access to technologies and financial support.
NEW ZEALAND called for submissions on accounting guidance focused on: principles and norms to safeguard environmental integrity; drawing from existing approaches; and how to accommodate all NDCs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the role of non-state actors in implementation and supported the Presidency’s approach to informally continue the APA’s work in the second week.
CANADA called for a balance between the Convention and the Protocol and said Protocol issues needed attention to expedite ratification.
Egypt, for G-77/CHINA, highlighted a lack of balance in the Co-Chairs’ draft texts, underscoring concerns regarding, inter alia: flexibilities in the transparency framework; differentiation in guidance on NDCs; “essential elements” missing from the compliance text; and a “lack of engagement” on important issues on Agreement Article 9.5.
Resuming discussions on the Co-Chairs ef bf bd text, ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, indicated that emphasis on the use of national communications to report on actions and assess vulnerability should not constrain actions in the most vulnerable and least developed countries that may not already have disseminated or compiled this information due to, inter alia, lack of capacity and funding.
Recognizing that the lack of multilateral financing constitutes a major obstacle to implementing the Convention and noting the slow and complex process to access GEF funds, DJIBOUTI supported the establishment of an independent financial mechanism to finance the CDM for poor countries.
SWITZERLAND suggested building on existing institutions through COP decisions.
The US said there could be various pathways to a 2°C goal, including: submission of pledges by countries that have not done so; and voluntary actions, which he said should not require recognition or approval under the UNFCCC.
 On Section K, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, cautioned that it, along with sections on compliance and procedural and institutional provisions, prejudge the legal outcome, falling outside the ADP mandate.
On the section on the reporting of supplementary information on Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms) under Article 7.2, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, and the EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and NIGERIA, said the relevant information will be provided in accordance with the guidelines as they relate to Article 3.14, and the paragraphs on Article 2.3 should be deleted from this section.
 \t\tSouth Africa, for G77/CHINA, observed that most Annex I submissions \t\trefer to domestic mitigation.
Supported by GHANA, he urged that the SCCF find a balance between mitigation and adaptation activities.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL MEETINGS: On the date and venue of COP-6, the G-77/CHINA proposed holding it in November 2000 and expressed concern over the proliferation of intersessional activities and workshops, their budgetary implications and obstacles for developing country participation.
Seeking reassurance that party submissions would be attached to the Co-Chairs’ informal note, the AFRICAN GROUP supported submissions.
During the ensuing discussion, the UK highlighted the potential of the FCCC to stimulate the development of renewable energy sources to provide further electrification in developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA preferred a three-day high-level segment, rather than a four-day one.
\t\t\tSwitzerland opposed the deletion, referring to the Organization for \t\t\tEconomic Cooperation and Development 92s (OECD) approach to official \t\t\tdevelopment assistance that emphasizes 93integration 94 and \t\t\t 93mainstreaming 94.
During the \t\tSBSTA plenary on Friday, 27 May, Canada, the US, New Zealand and Japan \t\tsupported Australia 92s second proposal.
In plenary, AOSIS stressed the key role of the Adaptation Fund, with Thailand, for the G-77/China, urging its enhancement pre-2020 and beyond.
 COSTA RICA has completed its inventory with UNDP/GEF assistance and is conducting a vulnerability assessment focused on coastal agriculture and water resources.
CHINA said workshop participation was limited and called for further exchange of views.
The Co-Chairs of WGII are Osvaldo Canziani \t\t(Argentina) and Martin Parry (UK).
Relating to a paragraph on the scope of the 2015 agreement, the LDCs, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed loss and damage as a fundamental element of the 2015 agreement.
On a paragraph on welcoming the further elaboration of elements for a draft negotiating text in response to previous COP decisions, the LDCs, opposed by the US, AUSTRALIA and the EU, requested referencing Decision 2/CP.19 (Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage) and, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, further elaboration of elements e2 80 9cas included in annex I e2 80 9d to the decision.
The US noted that “one size does not fit all,” and stressed the need to elaborate a clearly defined role for the Convention with key guidelines and goals.
On  , the Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said ICA should aim to facilitate mitigation action by developing countries, build capacity and enhance transparency.
He stated that the CDM will play an important role in the post-2012 period and also highlighted that the US draft domestic legislation emphasizes sectoral crediting.
The US said that the IPCC should continue to be one of the primary bodies providing independent and credible scientific information process as it uses the best experts from both developed and developing countries.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, she called for the issue to be included on the SBI 35 agenda under the item on further guidance to the GEF.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported focusing negotiations on issues that could be agreed and reaching a balanced agreement.
ZIMBABWE said emerging interest groups had slowed negotiations and appealed to Parties to conclude issues blocking implementation.
 \t\t\tThe US stressed the IPCC’s function as an assessment body, distinct \t\t\tfrom a body that develops research.
SAUDI ARABIA and several other developing countries, opposed by AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, supported continuing work on the basis of the Co-Chairs 92 consolidated text.
GERMANY stressed the urgency of indexing regional information and the need to make a decision on outreach at this session.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed serious concerns with the lack of progress in this process and reminded parties that Africans are already impacted by climate change, through increased droughts, health hazards, food scarcity and migration.
India asked the EU to examine the paper produced by the G-77 at INC-10 on communication of information by non- Annex I Parties.
The COP adopted the agenda including item 5 as it stood, and recorded the amendment proposed by the G-77/CHINA in a footnote.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said agreement under the AWG-KP should be part of a comprehensive outcome, including the AWG-LCA.
INDIA said institutions governed outside the Convention do not comply with the Convention’s provisions.
SPREP said calls for mainstreaming should consider the limited administrative capacities of SIDS, and noted that the environment ministries are often not adequately empowered.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, commended the COP 22 presidency for “leading complex negotiations towards satisfactory results, both for all parties and for the implementation of the Paris Agreement.”
SWITZERLAND suggested mapping how adaptation communications relate to other processes, such as NAPs.
The US and AUSTRALIA stressed comparability as something that is important for national decisions.
Contentious issues under this agenda item included: whether the guidance to the Fund should be considered at this or the subsequent COP; whether there should be explicit linkages between the LDC Expert Group and NAPA process, and the CGE; the composition of the LDC Expert Group; and the identity of the entity operating as a financial mechanism to the LDC Fund.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted the Dialogue had brought out a variety of stories affirming that Africa is the “most vulnerable continent.”
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested deleting the requirement of a report from the Secretariat, since the IPCC Report could provide the required information.
JAPAN stated that further commitments should be expressed in absolute emission levels and that using a single base year gives unfair advantage to certain countries.
NICARAGUA said the GCF should be accountable to the COP “in a real and operational sense.” BOLIVIA called for an open bidding process for selecting the trustee.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION expressed frustration at lack of clarity and transparency.
ALGERIA emphasized that arid and semi-arid zones are on the frontline of vulnerability, and encouraged synergies between the CCD, CBD and UNFCCC.
MEXICO lamented that many developing countries have submitted only one national communication and called for specific timetables.
Expressing disappointment at the failure of many Annex I parties to present concrete numbers, TUVALU drew attention to the AWG-KP as a “faith-building exercise,” which would allow action under the AWG-LCA.
Parties considered a textual proposal by the ADP Co-Chairs for paragraphs on a body to prepare for entry into force, and converged on using an existing body, specifically the ADP under a new name, by “importing” its governance and arrangements as proposed by Colombia, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC).
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said shifting the focus from cooperative collaboration towards e2 80 9can implementation review e2 80 9d would be unhelpful and duplicate existing processes under the Convention.
The EU stressed the importance of paragraph 42 of A/AC.237/78 allowing for endorsement of the INC"s recommendations without referring them to the Committee of the Whole.
Bangladesh supported the speedy application of the Adaptation and LDC Funds, and highlighted the particular vulnerability of low lying and small island States.
MALAYSIA, the PHILIPPINES, ARGENTINA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO said that widest possible NGO participation should be sought and requested that the Secretariat provide financial resources to ensure participation of developing country NGOs.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations at 450 ppm.
On information, BRAZIL, said that some information specific to objectives should be quantifiable, while the ARAB GROUP noted there is no such requirement in the Paris Agreement.
 The US said it is vital that the financial mechanism move swiftly to meet the agreed full costs to developing country Parties in their efforts to prepare national communications.
The EU suggested that a forum take place in an open context to include non-parties, such as civil society and experts.
MEXICO and many others, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, supported draft text on having an in-session workshop in 2011 on ways to enhance the engagement of observers and their means of participation.
SAUDI ARABIA said that \t\t\ttechnologies employed should be cost-effective, efficient, reliable, \t\t\tsocially acceptable, and based on a suite of environmental criteria, \t\t\tincluding biodiversity and noise pollution, rather than on emissions \t\t\talone.
The G-77/CHINA supported separate decisions with individual chapeaus on the three mechanisms, while CANADA, the EU and other Annex I countries supported three decisions under one chapeau.
Contingent on an agreement to develop a new legally-binding framework engaging all parties, the EU said he is “open to” a second commitment period, which should end by 2020.
Algeria, for the African Group, urged ambitious Annex I targets in the range of 25-40% cuts by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and Maldives, for the LDCs, urged deep cuts.
Colombia, for AILAC, outlined the sequence as: communication; ex ante assessment; formalization; review; and update of commitments/contributions.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, pointed to parallel views on the issues and a lack of common understanding of the term “country-driven.” Advocating attribution, she expressed concern with the structure of the revised negotiating text, which she said made it difficult to find the Group’s proposals.
Calling for a “COP of action,” Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), expressed concern that financing appears to be tapering, especially for the LDC Fund (LDCF) and the Adaptation Fund.
The SOLOMON ISLANDS stressed that “failure is not an option in Copenhagen.”
 The US commented that document A/AC.237/80 contains the inputs for the CC programmes and asked for estimates on the outputs.
MALAYSIA called for streamlining and strengthening of rules.
The EU emphasized flexibility and stressed the need for the COP to retain full authority to decide on operational matters of the funds.
RUSSIA opposed Canada’s suggestion for an annual system of providing inventories, as it would be costly and difficult.
The LDCs, AOSIS, INDONESIA, and CHINA supported an additional session.
SINGAPORE stated that, with appropriate technical expertise, ICAO and IMO are the “most competent bodies” to develop measures to limit emissions and sustain growth in the sectors.
TANZANIA sought clarity on the need for a separate reporting system for demonstrable progress, and proposed specifying timeframes for information exchange.
\t\tDifferences in opinion arose over whether the consideration should be \t\treferred to SBSTA to first address scientific and technical aspects, as \t\tproposed by the EU and others, or whether it should be referred to both \t\tSBSTA and SBI to address both technical and policy aspects, as preferred \t\tby the G-77/China, the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) and \t\tothers.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested exploring schemes to make some technologies IPR-free.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by AUSTRALIA, said that it was impossible to accept the inclusion of the word "possible."
• urgesall developed country parties to scale up climate finance from a wide variety of sources, to achieve the joint goal of mobilizing US$100 billion per year by 2020;
NORWAY urged delegates to restrict their attempted inputs and added that some of the G-77 proposed changes are self-evident.
ECUADOR suggested an e2 80 9ceco tax e2 80 9d on oil exports.
BANGLADESH, supporting Germany, stated that the AGBM must start negotiations on policies and measures for Annex I parties, and added that analysis and assessment could be done simultaneously.
AOSIS stressed the importance of regional workshops and questioned the mandate for an intersessional meeting.
SOUTH AFRICA said binding obligations to implement should “back up” developed countries’ commitment to take the lead.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the need for an overarching agreement in Durban that is able to enhance ambition over time.
The US said intellectual \t\tproperty rights are embodied in its Constitution, and encourage \t\tinnovation.
France, for the EU, called for a global and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen and expressed readiness to move to full negotiation mode.
Maldives, for AOSIS, welcomed binding language on NDC guidance for ICTU and its clear focus on mitigation, but noted concern on the 2028 review date, saying this would be too late for vulnerable countries.
BURKINA FASO said the LDC Fund and the SCCF should be complementary.
The EU supported the recommendation that the Secretariat should be attached to the UN without being incorporated into any department or programme.
Supported by NEW ZEALAND, the US said the text should specify that the compliance system is supplementary to all compliance aspects under the Protocol.
On the first item, UKRAINE agreed to remove the brackets, while KAZAKHSTAN and BELARUS requested more time for consultation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested consideration of key issues, including: intellectual property rights (IPRs); implementation of an international programme on adaptation; registry for nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs) by developing countries; and trade and climate change.
AOSIS emphasized the group’s deep disappointment with the numbers presented thus far, which represents a collective ambition of 11-18% below 1990 levels by 2020 and said this would lead to a temperature increase of “3ºC or worse.” CHINA recalled the history of the UNFCCC process, indicating that as soon as an instrument has been adopted, “efforts get underway to undermine it” and Annex I countries attempt to move away from their historical responsibility.
The EU and Japan stressed coordination of existing sources of funding.
AOSIS and others stated that, at the appropriate time, it will be necessary for all countries to participate formally in the effort to reduce GHG emissions.
AOSIS, the LDCs, Malaysia and the EU opposed a e2 80 9cblanket provision e2 80 9d for anchoring thematic institutions and bodies established through decisions.
SWEDEN noted the need for: a decision on the information requirements for INDCs; an international consultation process, informed by experts and climate science, to be undertaken in 2015; and economy-wide mitigation commitments by all parties in a position to do so.
BRAZIL said sources should bear responsibility for their information.
Following suggestions from France, Ireland, Norway, and the US, the authors proposed moving text on the rate of global warming into a new sentence and specifying that the rate is a result of past as well as ongoing emissions.
With SWITZERLAND and INDIA, he suggested further work on definitions.
AOSIS drew attention to the inaccuracies, under-reporting and procedural complications that make it inappropriate to credit retroactively.
The G-77/CHINA, the EU, AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, the UMBRELLA GROUP and SBI Chair Robert Owen-Jones then thanked UNFCCC Executive Secretary de Boer for his leadership.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Uganda, for the LDCs, and EGYPT called for attribution of submissions.
AUSTRALIA called for the addition of a new Part VI "Review of Activities under Article 6."
The US, supported by Canada, also emphasized \t\tlimiting the discussion to initial activities.
AUSTRIA suggested that Plenary be briefed on the outcomes of the WG III meetings on emissions scenarios, given the high sensitivity and relevance of this information.
SOUTH AFRICA and IRAN noted that COP-4 cannot finalize work on setting modalities and guidelines for the mechanisms.
This issue had been considered at SBI 26, when the Umbrella Group and the EU asked the SBI to consider information from non-Annex I parties, taking the view that SBI could make “better use of the valuable information that these documents contain and assist non-Annex I parties to further improve these documents” (FCCC/SBI/2006/MISC.12).
SAUDI ARABIA said the process of negotiation in the contact group had been unfair, and objected to the document on principle.
INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA identified consensus as the paramount principle that has produced the UNFCCC, Kyoto Protocol, Marrakesh Accords and the Bali Action Plan, and said it must be preserved.
He said that financial support would be provided for countries that are not capable of meeting the cost, and said that the “sub-elements” of the broad framework would be different, for instance, for LDCs and for developing countries that have more capacity and responsibility.
Expressing concern about progress on finance and adaptation, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the urgency of starting discussions, as early as possible, to identify the new collective goal on finance, noting the current finance target is not on track to be met.
SAUDI ARABIA urged advances in modeling impacts of response measures.
The NDCs represent, as US Secretary of State John Kerry called them, a “monument to differentiation”: each country determines its “fair contribution,” according to its respective capabilities and in light of its “different national circumstances.”
On a shared vision for long-term cooperative action, SWEDEN highlighted a focus on three issues: a temperature goal; a long-term global goal for emission reductions; and peaking of global emissions.
SWITZERLAND highlighted aspects hindering progress on raising ambition, namely: a technical understanding of the potential for joint and individual actions; and political will.
PORTUGAL said progress at COP-8 had been constructive, particularly regarding the completion of guidelines for reporting and review under Protocol Articles 5 (methodological issues), 7 (communication of information) and 8 (review of information).
Claiming a right to development, CUBA opposed new commitments for developing countries.
He said the ministerial consultations resulted in five messages on the Paris agreement, including: a clear sense of direction towards climate resilient sustainable development; regular assessment of aggregate ambition; better predictability of public finance and how the goal of mobilizing US$100 billion by 2020 will be reached; a set of common rules to ensure transparency and accountability; and the need for convergence on issues before Paris.
The G-77/CHINA said the New Zealand proposal should be dropped and that the group would not participate in a contact group as a matter of principle.
The EU said technology financing should be an integral part of a Copenhagen agreement, and noted the need to double energy-related public R&amp;D investments by 2012, and quadruple them by 2020.
 Majid Al Suwaidi, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), described his country e2 80 99s green economy initiative, highlighting the importance of CCS as the UAE diversifies its economy and invests in energy-intensive activities.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR requested that the COP consider Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 136 (platform for local communities and indigenous peoples to exchange experiences and share best practices on mitigation and adaptation) and begin work.
 On land use and forestry, MICRONESIA called for clearer definitions.
WWF South Pacific underscored the "devastating" effects of climate change on SIDS.
The US proposed that the Secretariat prepare a report on technology transfer and development efforts by Parties for consideration by SBSTA at its next session and endorsed the Secretariat\'s proposal to establish a consultative process to develop consensus on next steps.
94 On future sessions, the EU \t\tobjected to text proposed by the US recommending that meetings be held \t\t 93during normal United Nations Headquarters working hours 94 (which are \t\t10:00 am to 6:00 pm, with a two hour break for lunch).
The EU, also speaking for the CG-11 and SWITZERLAND, introduced a proposal on Article 6 (JI) containing appendices on standards for accreditation of independent entities and on criteria for baseline setting and monitoring, as well as several amendments to the draft decisions (FCCC/CP/2001/MISC.5).
AUSTRALIA suggested shortening the \t\tlunchtime break.
The issue was first taken up by the SBI plenary on 27 November when the EU tabled a draft decision on promoting gender equality by improving the participation of women in the UNFCCC negotiations and in the representation of parties in Convention and Protocol bodies (FCCC/SBI/2012/CRP.1).
JAPAN noted the need for time for consultation and difficulties in combining ongoing work under the FCCC and the Protocol.
The EU urged more thought on the difference between a goal/vision and collective effort.
South Africa, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, Malawi, for LDCs, SWAZILAND and others, stated that the guidelines should be general, meaning brief and less onerous than MRV for developed countries, and that measurement and reporting are covered in other UNFCCC decisions.
Much of the discussion centered on a proposal from the EU for a 15% cut in a "basket" of three greenhouse gases (GHGs) by the year 2010 as compared to 1990 levels.
MEXICO proposed a world climate change fund, or green fund, on mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer, with participation of all countries and contributions according to greenhouse gas emissions, population and GDP.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for establishing new mechanisms, including an adaptation committee to provide technical support for implementing enhanced adaptation action and a fund under the COP with assessed contributions by developed countries of 1.5% of gross domestic product (GDP) per year.
Switzerland, for the EIG, asked that the Co-Chairs “make choices in light of the Paris Agreement,” which included: legally-binding guidance where the Agreement foresees it; not introducing bifurcation where not present in the Agreement; and reflecting that developed countries shall provide financial resources, and other parties are encouraged to do so.
The US said the Cancun Agreements do not establish a process for narrowing the ambition gap and this should be considered in the context of the 2013-2015 Review.
China, the US and Trinidad and Tobago supported the Chair\'s suggestion to move the highlights to the report.
CANADA \t\t\tstressed the need for public and private sector engagement and \t\t\thighlighted the RETScreen project as well as the role of academia.
Chile, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE FOR LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), stressed the importance of the transparency framework, the global stocktake, and the mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance.
CANADA said any advisory role for UNEP would be at the behest of the FCCC Parties and UNEP\'s Governing Council.
AUSTRIA drew links between climate change and energy consumption patterns, renewable energy and natural resources.
CANADA supported the voluntary payments to a compliance fund to deal with mitigation projects.
On the Adaptation Fund, ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, proposed text welcoming the substantive progress achieved in “exchanging views and information” instead of “the negotiations.”
CANADA urged the SBSTA to endorse the SAR and bring it to the COP for action.
CHINA proposed a one-day workshop on transparency, split in half between support and adaptation, and opposed a roundtable on “NDCs,” citing a lack of consensus on the issues.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, he called for discussions on consequences for countries that are not agreeing to take on commitments for the second commitment period.
After TUVALU, the US, the EU, VENEZUELA, CUBA and COLOMBIA expressed general support for using the compilation text with bridging proposals in line with the LMDCs’ proposal, parties began indicating key elements of concern.
The US asked for more time for comment.
SPAIN emphasized monitoring as an important measure of project outcomes on the ground.
Algeria suggested that “adequate and predictable funding for adaptation” also be “additional.” The EU and Japan, opposed by Ecuador, considered specifying finance as “adequate and predictable” problematic.
The US said she would not oppose a market mechanism established under the Convention that would accommodate all countries.
 The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, favored legally binding P&amp;Ms and highlighted his proposed Annexes A (common P&amp;Ms), B (coordinated P&amp;Ms that receive high priority) and C (priority P&amp;Ms for inclusion in national programmes).
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed a number of changes and insertions to the table, noting these were based on language agreed under the Paris Agreement.
SOUTH AFRICA identified lack of clarity on the legal form of the AWG-LCA’s outcome as the “elephant in the room” and COLOMBIA identified it as one of the problems preventing success in Copenhagen.
One EIT presented, followed by a discussion among parties.
IRAN noted this proposal and said that, dependent on the sentiment within the G-77/ CHINA, it provided ground for further movement on this issue.
CHINA suggested amending agenda item 3 to “planning of the work on mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, transparency of action and support, and capacity building.” He also called for deleting item 4.
The EU supported parallel discussions on developed and developing country comparability of efforts and further exploring MRV.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the US and JAPAN said the MRV system should be applicable to all, with some in-built flexibility to respond to national circumstances.
JAPAN noted that sectoral approaches to agriculture should be implemented according to national circumstances and that COP 16 should encourage further work on this sector.
The Gambia, for LDCs, said there was need to discuss the mandate of the AWG-LCA to continue work on the legal form.
The EU added that: the Fund is under CMP authority and no other financial institution is under the CMA’s authority; the third review of the Fund is not “business as usual”; and arrangements for the Fund’s work must be examined.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and others stressed the need to agree on LULUCF before determining targets.
TUVALU noted that ranges depend on the length of the commitment period.
In the subsection on guidelines under Article 7.1 (inclusion of supplementary information in annual inventories), the US, opposed by the EU and Australia, proposed deleting the section on adjustments in accordance with Article 5.2, maintaining that reporting should be the responsibility of the review team, not the Party.
FRANCE highlighted the growing sense of e2 80 9chope e2 80 9d for an agreement in Paris but noted the need to meet conditions for success in Lima.
UGANDA emphasized that the SCCF should not affect the level of funding available for the LDC Fund.
Belize, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), supported peaking of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2015 and called for progress on adaptation and finance.
CHINA, with GRENADA, expressed concern that, by calling for ambitious sectoral targets in developing countries, developed countries are stepping away from their obligation to reduce their emissions.
 delegates considered draft text setting out various options, including an EU proposal for a pilot phase.
BHUTAN and BANGLADESH called for special attention to LDCs 92 needs.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a 2015 agreement that is legally binding and applicable to all, limits the temperature increase to below 1.5 c2 b0C, and clearly quantifies mitigation efforts.
JAPAN acknowledged the series of guidelines adopted by the IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee as helpful.
BRAZIL and SAMOA expressed strong disagreement, SAMOA preferring to bracket "deforestation or harvesting."
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for linking technology to the effective implementation of developing country INDCs.
Saudi Arabia, with the US, preferred instead to address energy efficiency in a separate report, and emphasized cost-effectiveness and environmental impact.
 c2 a0Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for an ex ante assessment of adaptation action, and for finance commensurate with adaptation needs.
BRAZIL preferred no change in greenhouse gases and suggested that adding new gases that are reported but not accounted for may result in a “loophole.” AUSTRALIA, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and SWITZERLAND supported estimating and reporting new greenhouse gases.
  This conference will take place from 2-4 April 2008, at the University of Oxford, UK, and is organized by the Global Environmental Change and Food Systems Project.
Zambia, for LDCs, said the draft governing instrument provides sufficient basis for a financial institutional arrangement.
In its proposed budget, the Secretariat estimated that US$3.2 million will be required for Protocol activities, should it enter into force during the 2004-2005 biennium.
AOSIS, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, and CANADA stressed the need to ensure transparency and consistency between national inventories and that of the RIOs.
The G-77/CHINA also proposed noting that the outcome of the Committee\'s work shall include, as necessary, measures for the effective implementation of the Convention.
AWG-KP Chair Ashe described the appointment of ministers from the UK and Brazil to conduct ministerial consultations on “key political questions.” BRAZIL then provided an overview of these consultations with negotiating groups and countries.
The EU said some matters under Articles 5, 7 and 8 can only be completed after COP-6, as decisions made on other issues need to be taken into consideration.
Tuvalu, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that consequential amendments, which arise from the amendment of Annex B, must be considered to ensure legal consistency with the Kyoto Protocol.
JAPAN reiterated his country’s proposal for an advisory group.
While noting the relevance of the topic, the US, seconded by Brazil, expressed caution due to the IPCC’s financial situation and the timing of the meeting and appropriate prioritization of IPCC activities.
The G-77/CHINA \t\topposed applying the GEF 92s Resource Allocation Framework to national \t\tcommunications.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for funding for project \t\tdevelopment and training local experts.
UKRAINE identified the need to consult on the level of the proposed fee.
INDIA stressed the Convention’s principles, including historical responsibility.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of measuring, reporting and verification (MRV) and the SBI’s role in implementing related decisions.
The US noted that expertise resides at the sectoral level, which provides a good vehicle to promote cooperation, and noted overlap with sections on technology, adaptation and mitigation.
 This item was first taken up in the SBSTA plenary on Monday, 8 May, and subsequently in informal consultations co-facilitated by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives).
CANADA \t\tindicated that analysis should include lessons learned from climate \t\tchange policy implementation.
He urged: not pressing countries to agree to decisions they may be unable to comply with; developed countries to honor their US$100 billion by 2020 commitment; and all countries to engage in facilitating technology transfer.
NEW ZEALAND said her country’s preference would be a single and unified post-2012 legal outcome avoiding duplication of efforts and institutions.
JAPAN highlighted resource constraints for intersessional meetings.
BOLIVIA also supported the establishment of an international court of climate and environmental justice and democratic participation with world referenda on climate issues.
France, opposed by the US, \t\t\tproposed restructuring the entire section and adding detail from the \t\t\tExecutive Summary, including on hurricanes.
The US highlighted elements in its written submission relating to, inter alia: an "eligibility threshold" that addressed difficulties with investment additionality; standards for baselines; and crediting for sinks.
 The PHILIPPINES submitted a separate amendment consisting of three new paragraphs, which she said were supported by most, but not all, of the members of the G-77 and China.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that text requiring financial resources from developing countries would contravene the Convention’s principles and stressed that finance should be based on public funding rather than from taxes that would impact exports from developing countries.
CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that the TEC should be a strong entity with a role in guidance, setting up programmes and raising financial support, and said it should be independent and report directly to the COP.
CHINA said the panels would have to be intergovernmental in nature and be composed of 20 government-nominated experts.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, preferred to retain the language without brackets.
Maldives, for AOSIS, urged the text to take into account the special needs of SIDS.
JAPAN said adaptation planning should be mainstreamed into development planning and called for cooperation among donors.
The US suggested considering how the IMO and ICAO should deal with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities if it is not part of their mandate.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted that attributions would be useful also for considering the matrix.
 The Chair introduced document A/AC.237/91/Add.1, which contains the text of proposals from the G-77 and China, the EU and the US.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized the importance of considering national circumstances.
BRAZIL and TUVALU, for the LDCs, noted that the scope should not be limited to Convention Article 2 (objective).
INDIA asked for another iteration of the co-facilitators e2 80 99 proposal before it is forwarded to the ADP Co-Chairs.
CANADA called for inclusiveness across all stakeholder groups.
The G-77/CHINA, CANADA and SWITZERLAND also supported party-to-party triggers.
The US stressed parallel progress on all mechanisms.
Zambia, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), said the draft governing instrument provides sufficient basis for a financial institutional arrangement.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, and the US proposed to conclude the review with an oral recognition of the variety of views expressed, and emphasized the need to focus on modalities, work programme, and functions of the forum under the Paris Agreement.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said although the BM is a complex and noble undertaking, practical matters needed to be addressed in the work on a legal instrument, particularly for countries with economies in transition.
SLOVENIA suggested that a Party raise questions with respect to its own implementation.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the need to enhance the frequency and content of national communications, and expressed disappointment with the lack of conclusion on the fourth review of the financial mechanism.
MEXICO proposed the consideration of vulnerable sectors and regions, and developing and strengthening regional networks.
THAILAND noted with concern that the Secretariat was being asked to undertake numerous tasks, while BRAZIL asked whether the Secretariat had the required resources.
On the logical flow of the text, Australia, supported by Canada, New Zealand, the US and the EIG, suggested placing paragraphs on contributions under the legal agreement before those on the scale of resources.
 AUSTRALIA welcomed indications that Parties have increased their efforts on national communications.
The G-77/China opposed and the EU and other developed countries supported low-carbon emission strategies.
However, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, the US, JAPAN and others highlighted the need to prioritize work on issues in Appendix 2 of Decision 1/CP.16.
 MALAYSIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said the TAR 92s conclusions should be used cautiously.
The US called for comprehensive coverage and consistency between the Protocol and Convention, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned against inclusion of insignificant gases.
BRAZIL opposed, preferring the Chair’s more specific draft text.
GRENADA supported improvements to the programme of activities and highlighted that there are outstanding issues to be discussed, such as how micro-scale criteria apply to programmes of activities, particularly whether they apply to the entire programme or to each CDM programme activity.
CHINA suggested that each Party should focus on promoting public awareness on the IPCC TAR, and MAURITIUS said Article 6 implementation should take place at the grassroots level in both developed and developing countries.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed identifying and clarifying relevant aspects of the guidance the APA is to develop.
 In response to a US request for clarification, the text was amended to specify that the current warming trend is multi-decadal.
 \t\t\tChina, Germany, Sweden and others expressed concern over a sentence \t\t\tdiscussing carbon leakage outside the EU as a result of the EU \t\t\tEmissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), with the US noting potential \t\t\tconfusion of policymakers not familiar with the EU ETS.
INDONESIA, BENIN and DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO called for addressing the lack of sink projects under the CDM.
On the scope of the workshop, Papua \t\tNew Guinea proposed the workshop focus only on policy approaches and \t\tpositive incentives, while the EU, Japan, Tuvalu and others preferred \t\talso addressing technical and methodological matters.
The EU distributed its comments on the paper produced by the Green Group.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said implementation should focus on addressing barriers to finance and IPRs with a balanced emphasis on mitigation and adaptation technologies.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said an agreement should cover all major emitters and major economies, and forests for all countries.
Noting consensus is needed for adopting conclusions, Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that this issue deserves consideration.
In the contact group, on an alternative paragraph inviting the Secretariat to enhance existing practices for the facilitation of non-party stakeholder participation, parties, including Ecuador, the Russia Federation and the US, expressed diverging views.
Emphasizing that the issue of response measures has been dealt with under mitigation, JAPAN urged avoiding duplication of efforts.
NORWAY proposed that this be determined under project registration.
Richard Betts, UK Hadley Center, emphasized that vulnerability to food insecurity depends on non-climatic factors as well as climate, but generally increases with global warming.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted that decisions should: lock-in achievements to date; outline pathways for further progress; and galvanize immediate action by implementing the Copenhagen Accord.
 Following a brief consultation with the G-77/CHINA, Saudi Arabia and the EU, the Chair amended a reference to the SAR as “an assessment,” rather than a “clear indication” of the likelihood of climate change.
BOLIVIA welcomed a new Chair’s text if it reflects parties’ views, urged progress on “numbers” and called for negotiations to take place in official meetings rather than informally.
SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN supported a cooperative approach, particularly in addressing economic concerns, while the UK favored an individualistic one.
Highlighting the role of civil society, PARAGUAY supported inclusion of the People’s Agreement of Cochambamba into the Chair’s text.
However, JAPAN, COSTA RICA, PANAMA, COLOMBIA, BARBADOS, the EU, GHANA and AUSTRALIA supported the contact group.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of funding for non-Annex I national communications and continuing the Consultative Group of Experts on Non-Annex I National Communications (CGE).
The US opposed the consideration of this issue under SBI.
TURKEY supported the creation of a technology transfer fund.
Welcoming the revised text, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, reported the group had agreed to "light touch editing" by the Secretariat, emphasizing they were ready to work on the basis of the resulting text.
 The second round-table discussion was co-chaired by Paula Dobriansky, Under-Secretary for Global Affairs, US, and Mohammed Valli Moosa, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, South Africa.
 \t\t\tMaldives, speaking for AOSIS and the LDCs, said urgent emissions \t\t\treductions are needed, hoped that lower stabilization scenarios \t\t\tbelow 550 ppm would be analyzed, and looked forward to developing a \t\t\ttimetable for completing the AWG’s work in Bali.
SWITZERLAND announced an additional contribution, pending parliamentary approval, of CHF140 million for fast-track financing, bringing its total contribution to CHF400 million for 2010-2012.
The US pointed out that the review must take account of the Kyoto outcome, and asked that the nature of the review be clarified.
The G-77/China, opposed by Australia, the EU, Japan, and the US, requested that text referring to information sharing at side events be deleted.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT supported revising the non-paper and adding attributions.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and NIGERIA stressed that technology transfer is pivotal to the Convention.
SOUTH AFRICA called for ex ante assessment of INDCs by the Secretariat through, inter alia, a technical paper on the aggregate effect of parties e2 80 99 contributions.
He welcomed assessment of protocol proposals as an indication of desire for strong reductions like those contained in the AOSIS draft protocol.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reminded parties distancing themselves from the Protocol that the flexibility mechanisms are an integral part of it, and emphasized the need to continue the CDM and the Adaptation Fund.
The G-77/CHINA commented that "rights" is in the literature on domestic common property resource trading schemes and in the FCCC regarding the right to develop.
THAILAND and TAJIKISTAN emphasized the need to build research capacity.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested using the verbs in the paragraph as e2 80 9cshorthand.
AUSTRALIA incorporated sentences from the fourth paragraph, which notes the argument that no set of policies and measures may be appropriate for all Annex I Parties and concerns about competition.
 During subsequent discussion, it was stated that a study of the benefit/cost ratio over 20 years of the US Clean Air Act had yielded a figure of greater than 16 to 1.
On IAR, BOLIVIA called for a compliance system and a set of penalties.
The US said that its design for the compliance system is focused on Protocol Article 3 (GHG reduction and limitation commitments) and provides for both facilitative and enforcement functions to be dealt with \'\'by two different sets of people.\'\' She said the goal of enforcement is to ensure compliance through binding consequences that are known in advance.
The EU noted the constitutional complications for some countries posed by provisional application.
CHINA said the policy must be consistent with \t\tthe principles of the IPCC, and proposed establishing a work group on \t\tthe issue.
 \t\tSMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES (SIDS):
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called on developed countries to show the leadership and political will necessary to combat climate change.
CJN!, for ENGOs, lamented that the EU has yet to ratify the Doha Amendment.
Nafie Ali Nafie, Assistant President of Sudan, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to maintain a two-track outcome under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol on the basis of comparable and ambitious emission reductions, and respect the Convention’s principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
On the procedures to be followed, the US, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and SAMOA opposed text allowing flexibility to the enforcement branch in the application of the consequences for economies in transition.
Many countries agreed that most vulnerable countries should be given priority in adaptation funding, and MEXICO highlighted the need to consider the most vulnerable groups within countries.
The G-77/CHINA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported the package.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for focusing on parties willing to enter into a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period and exploring whether and how their conditionalities have or can be met.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, stated that they are not ready to consider adoption of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, but that a study on the implications of adopting the guidelines would be useful.
Croatia, supported by the Central Group of Eleven (CG-11), stressed its special circumstances.
The US and Canada emphasized concerns with quantitative caps.
Parties agreed to establish informal groups on: amendments to the Kyoto Protocol pursuant to Article 3.9, co-facilitated by Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and Leon Charles (Grenada); LULUCF, co-facilitated by Marcelo Rocha (Brazil) and Peter Iversen (Denmark); the flexibility mechanisms and methodological issues, facilitated by AWG-KP Vice-Chair Adrian Macey (New Zealand); and potential consequences, co-facilitated by Andrew Ure (Australia) and Eduardo Calvo Buendía (Peru).
The EU reaffirmed that inclusion of sink activities should not undermine incentives for action on gross emission mitigation.
NIGERIA expressed concern that different transaction costs would reduce CDM take-up and, with INDIA and CHINA, proposed similar requirements for JI.
On possible elements for the provisional \t\tCOP 11 agenda, Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked that the agenda \t\treflects that an item on UNFCCC Article 4.8 (adverse effects) is part of \t\ta review process and that an item on capacity building be added.
NORWAY suggested considering fora for increased mitigation ambition after 2015, pointing to the Subsidiary Body on Implementation and Technology Executive Committee (TEC) as examples.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), expressed support for working on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decisions and non-paper, highlighted EIG members e2 80 99 contributions to the Green Climate Fund (GCF), and expressed the group e2 80 99s commitment to timely communication of INDCs.
NORWAY suggested that the ADP Co-Chairs prepare a reflection note for the Presidency, which the G-77/CHINA opposed at this time.
China and the US queried the scenarios used for the carbon budget and related uncertainties.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that South-South financing is against the Convention’s principles.
The EU proposed reassessing some fundamentals of the clearinghouse, including the targeting of recipients and their needs.
On a workshop, also under next steps, BRAZIL suggested clarifying that workshop discussions about technical expert review and facilitative, multilateral consideration should take place “in conjunction/complementary with” reporting discussions.
SWITZERLAND proposed to note the report with appreciation and move it to the annex.
The US supported differentiation among countries on the basis of projected impacts and adaptive capacity.
The US supported references to non-Annex I Parties, as Article 3.14 did not specify whether actions to be considered by the COP/MOP under this Article were exclusively those of Annex I Parties.
In terms of \t\tgeneral guidance for future meetings, the US and others favored applying \t\tnormal working hours for meetings at UN headquarters (which are 10:00 am \t\tto 6:00 pm with a two-hour lunch break) to the climate process.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, proposed the inclusion of non-Annex I national communications on the agenda.
The EU highlighted the concepts of “massive transformation” and dynamism in the context of the new agreement.
With CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and IRAN, she regretted the absence of developed country Parties from a scheduled contact group meeting the previous night.
SAUDI ARABIA called for retaining language on impacts of response measures.
After \t\tdiscussion by IPCC Chair Pachauri and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION regarding \t\tthe procedure for the acceptance of underlying material and the purpose \t\tof the compilation of government comments (IPCC-XXV/Doc.
GHANA identified IPRs as a problem for developing countries, and, with BANGLADESH, UGANDA, INDONESIA, ARGENTINA and BOLIVIA, stressed that the IPR regime should be modified so that it does not constitute a barrier to technology transfer.
Australia and the US noted that parties at COP 23 had agreed how to reflect the issues discussed under possible additional matters.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for: transforming current pledges on the table into QELROS to enable progress in discussions; enhancing ambition by closing loopholes in the Kyoto Protocol; provisional application of “any agreement” on a second commitment period to resolve the issue of the gap; and discussion of consequential amendments.
NEW ZEALAND queried what this recognition would entail.
VENEZUELA said the organization of the COP was the responsibility of the FCCC and the recommendations on equal treatment and transparency were not directed at Argentina.
CAN 96 SOUTH EAST ASIA said trying to link AIJ to CDM would create another loophole permitting Parties to renege on their commitments.
The EU expressed support for adopting a ratifiable second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol in Doha as part of a transition to a single, comprehensive and global legally binding climate agreement by 2020.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, asked for additional time to consider the text.
 \t\tPakistan, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), emphasized an \t\tapproach based on key principles stated in the Convention and Protocol \t\tand said advancing work under the AWG was an 93absolute imperative.
Many groups requested clarity on the consultations’ timing, with CHINA pointing out linkages between the sub-item on Agreement Article 9.5 and discussions ongoing under the APA.
CHINA warned that the Kyoto Protocol should not copy the Montreal Protocol.
Singapore, for AOSIS, presented a framing paragraph for this section of the agreement, conveying that developed countries shall provide adequate support for effective participation of developing countries in the transparency system.
Japan and the EU asked for the agenda \t\t\titem to be deleted since it was addressed elsewhere in the SB’s \t\t\tagenda.
CANADA questioned whether existing models fully capture the evolution of new, less carbon-intensive technologies.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for action to raise ambition in the context of the long-term goal.
On monitoring and review of capacity-building support, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SAINT LUCIA, requested that the section title be changed from “monitoring and review” of capacity-building support and action, to either “assessing delivery of” or “assessing and evaluating” capacity building.
CANADA said a ef bf bdtechnology \t\trevolution ef bf bd is needed.
Noting his country\'s decrease in emissions of 10% below the base year under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s first commitment period, LUXEMBOURG said his country e2 80 99s emissions were decoupled from population growth and carbon intensity.
BELARUS elaborated on time necessary to consider that “permanence” is achieved.
AOSIS expressed concern regarding the risks \t\tinvolved in carbon dioxide capture and storage, and Libya said more \t\tresearch was needed.
The US requested additional time for consideration before concluding this agenda item to “check that the facts were as presented.” The Panel did not return to this item.
He highlighted a new US$7.5 million grant to be used by developing country scientists to work on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation.
Parties noted proposals by Japan (FCCC/CP/2009/3), Tuvalu (FCCC/CP/2009/4), the US (FCCC/CP/2009/7), Australia (FCCC/CP/2009/5), Costa Rica (FCCC/CP/2009/6) and Grenada (FCCC/CP/2010/3).
The EU called for a global and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen that builds on and broadens the architecture of the Kyoto Protocol.
Costa Rica, for the Association of Independent Latin American and Caribbean states (AILAC), said although the text provides a good basis for further work, it is imperfect.
 : This agenda item, which includes sub-items on the fourth review of the financial mechanism, on the report of, and guidance to, the Global Environment Facility (GEF) (FCCC/CP/2008/2) and on the LDC Fund (FCCC/SBI/2008/MISC.8), was first introduced in SBI plenary on 2 December.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, called for a follow-up agreement to the Protocol in order for industrialized countries to continue, and to intensify, their emission reduction commitments.
SLOVENIA reiterated the urgency of action, calling for the proposed working groups to provide sufficient input to COP-4 on the elaboration of modalities, rules and guidelines.
NEW ZEALAND noted that extension of the share of proceeds would require a Protocol amendment rather than just a COP/MOP decision.
He reported the Fund received US$81.4 million in contributions in the past year.
CHINA reiterated that it was not urgent to establish an MCP.
On criteria and guiding principles, the EU suggested reference to the objectives, principles and relevant provisions of the FCCC and Protocol.
INDIA noted that the record of Annex I countries leaves “no reason for optimism” on their willingness to voluntarily scale up contributions to the Adaptation Fund.
The US suggested continuing consideration of this proposal and other OECD members’ relationship to Annex I at COP-4.
AOSIS said the issues that must be resolved include improvements to the flexibility mechanisms, accounting rules for LULUCF and translation of pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs).
BRAZIL, with AOSIS, PERU and ARGENTINA, \t\tpreferred a focused approach and suggested holding a technical workshop \t\tafter COP-10 that would consider submissions by Parties and possibly \t\tbiome-specific definitions.
AFGHANISTAN pointed to the importance of technical cooperation and assistance, in addition to financial support.
The NETHERLANDS, with CANADA, favored applying the same approach to all Parties, including an incentive scheme.
On  the African Group, AOSIS, and Brazil offered proposals and presentations.
UNFCCC Executive Secretary Cutajar introduced the revised UNFCCC programme budget, produced following SBI 92s recommendation at SB-14 of a budget for 2002-2003 of US$32.8 million.
During the closing plenary, South Africa, speaking for the BASIC countries, stressed the need to “give equal preference to pre-2020 issues” at the next UNFCCC session, expressing concern that these issues were not adequately dealt with in Marrakech.
In the informal consultations, Co-Facilitator Jallow invited country presentations on the implementation of the capacity-building framework for economies in transition (EIT), requesting reflections on: type of support received; results; lessons learned; current and emerging gaps; and relevance to the Paris Agreement and other related provisions.
TANZANIA, supported by MEXICO, suggested that subnational entities and local authorities act through their national governments.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need for an equitable approach and said the SAR should be considered by the COP in making balanced decisions.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said that his position on a five-year commitment period is driven by mitigation ambition and not symmetry between the negotiation tracks.
BRAZIL elaborated on its suggestion for “twinning” centers of excellence as a form of partnership, noting such cooperation can be North-South, South-South and triangular.
 KUWAIT said it is important to focus on the economic impacts of any proposals for new commitments, and on the reduction in change in temperature and sea-level rise that can be achieved.
On Thursday, noting that this SR would be one of the most high-profile reports by the Panel, the US urged adherence to the highest standards, including by supporting findings with sufficient literature.
The NETHERLANDS urged strengthening adaptation action for a climate-resilient world.
The EU emphasized that their decision to participate in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol was taken in the context of the wider package in Durban that leads to transition toward a single global agreement.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT and TUNISIA, highlighted the need to extend the pilot phase and ensure greater geographical balance in projects.
Switzerland, opposed by the UK, \t\t\tproposed referring to limitations and caveats only in a later \t\t\tsection.
Malawi, for the LDCs, called for inclusion of grant-based investments.
South Africa, for BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India and China), regretted that some parties had refused to engage on finance and technology issues, and had prevented his group’s views from being reflected as options in negotiating text.
On the report of the SCF, the G-77/CHINA emphasized, inter alia, financing for forests, transaction costs of climate finance and MRV of finance.
She suggested, supported by the EU, an additional group for compliance.
The EU stressed that some issues should be dealt with in other groups or fora.
WGIII Co-Chair Skea said the proposed timing in 2016 is much too early, stressing, with the UK, that it should take place in 2018 so that author teams can participate.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that the success of SBSTA\'s work would depend on the mutually complementary work done by the IPCC and other related organizations.
BARBADOS did not support Option C. PERU supported Option C but expressed doubts regarding methodology for forest management.
The AFRICAN GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA, Chile, for AILAC, Panama, for CfRN, AOSIS and MEXICO called for building on the existing MRV framework, with some suggesting it could evolve over time.
With \t\tCANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, the EU called for work on LULUCF.
Co-Facilitator Kelley Kizzier (EU) introduced the list and invited comments from parties on elements they thought are missing or did not want included.
The US highlighted the importance of inventories and sought revisions guidelines on policies and measures (P&amp;Ms), national circumstances and technology transfer.
On the issue of baselines for emissions avoidance projects, NEW ZEALAND suggested that, to minimize transaction costs, the commercial contract-bidding process should be used to identify the baseline.
In the ensuing discussion, CHINA highlighted his country’s analysis showing that the emissions gap can be closed if Annex I countries achieve reductions of 25-40%.
Several parties, including Japan, Tuvalu and Slovenia, for the EU, identified the need to address international aviation and maritime transport emissions.
Drawing attention to the window of opportunity to push forward a new green economy as a consequence of the global economic crisis, she said renewable energy would be one of the priorities of her country’s Presidency of the European Union (EU) in 2010.
COLOMBIA supported extending the share of proceeds to emissions trading and Joint Implementation.
The G-77/China and the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) stressed concern about evaluating progress.
AUSTRALIA indicated that while the appeal must comply with the existing rules, it is also possible to address the broader issues.
The UK, on behalf of the EU, said she looked \t\tforward to the adoption of the Marrakesh Accords, supported adoption of \t\ta decision on the compliance regime, and identified the need for more \t\twork on the CDM and guidance on the Adaptation Fund.
NORWAY suggested that the workshop focus on issues, such as rule-based approaches, greenhouse gases and sectors; and LULUCF.
The UMBRELLA GROUP expressed concerns on the way equity is reflected in the current text.
 \t\tFrance, Switzerland, Germany, Zambia, Austria and others supported \t\tstating that CCS 93could be 94 a mitigation option, while Saudi Arabia, \t\tAustralia, and the US expressed a preference for stating that CCS 93is 94 a \t\tmitigation option.
CHINA said there were many precedents for adopting a protocol or amendment, but noted that the need for Annex I countries to strengthen their commitments must not be forgotten.
 NORWAY supported Australia on comprehensiveness, saying the commitments should cover all GHGs, sinks and sources.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, AOSIS, BANGLADESH and INDONESIA, suggested merging Option A and Option B. BRAZIL, with BOLIVIA, opposed stating that Option A includes proposals that are consequential amendments to Protocol Article 3.9 (subsequent commitment periods), while those in Option B are not.
JAMAICA said other relevant documents should also be used.
On Friday, 25 October, LDC Expert Group (LEG) Chair Bubu Jallow (Gambia) reported on the second meeting of the Group and on progress in implementing the LEG work programme.
BRAZIL said finance should primarily be based on public funding to ensure predictability, combined with auctioning of Assigned Amount Units (AAUs) to provide the scale of funding needed.
The IPCC TAR was taken up by the SBSTA on Wednesday, 4 June, and subsequently addressed in a contact group co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Walid Al-Malik (United Arab Emirates).
On loss and damage, AOSIS, the LDCs, AILAC, the African Group and others, opposed by Australia, emphasized that it should become a stand-alone element in the new agreement.
The G-77/CHINA added that many Parties urged SBSTA to set up ITAPs without delay.
BANGLADESH, NORWAY and the US expressed concern over overlap with previous relevant COP decisions.
Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, urged operationalizing the Agreement at COP 24.
COLOMBIA supported working section-by-section and said that depending on time, line-by-line or paragraph-by-paragraph discussions could also be conducted.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, supported a consistent approach to the work of the Subsidiary Bodies in order to make meaningful progress on related agenda items such as adaptation, technology, MRV, and national communications.
INDONESIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said this issue had been deliberated at length, but no consensus had been reached.
The US noted progress on technical matters, but said there was still considerable work remaining on core issues such as compliance, the mechanisms, technology transfer, capacity building, adverse effects, and sinks.
The UMBRELLA GROUP stressed developed countries’ continued assurances to continue to lead in the context of a universal agreement in which all parties do their best.
MEXICO called for an ecosystem-based approach.
On CERs, the G-77/CHINA suggested discussing them bearing in mind the purposes of the CDM.
Peru, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), Tuvalu, for the LDCs, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and the Russian Federation emphasized the section contextualizes the agreement e2 80 99s objective.
The UK said discussion at this workshop had identified a number of inadequacies in the models used, including their assumption of a uniform carbon tax and failure to account for non-CO2 GHGs.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, said a shared vision means developed countries taking the lead in reducing emissions and developing countries pursuing a clean development path avoiding past mistakes, with adaptation as an integral element.
INDIA requested clarification on how to avoid double counting.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that workshops could address all thematic areas in a combined approach, rather than addressing one theme only.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, urged balance and coherence across the APA and SBs.
The AFRICAN GROUP recalled differentiation between developed and developing countries under the Convention, and the responsibility of developed countries to provide finance.
Emphasizing that form must follow function, AUSTRALIA underscored: effectiveness; simplicity; durability; and avoiding duplication.
  The Secretariat introduced this topic (FCCC/SBI/2008/3 &amp; INF.6), highlighting the US$6 million shortfall due to the depreciating US dollar.
The US highlighted the Copenhagen Accord as a “big step” in clarifying the financial architecture with the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund as the operating entity of the financial mechanism.
The UMBRELLA GROUP emphasized agenda items on national communications and guidance to the GEF.
TANZANIA stressed all elements should be in the core agreement.
NIGERIA supported continuing the two-track system.
Relating to a paragraph on the scope of the 2015 agreement, the LDCs, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed loss and damage as a fundamental element.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress in the AWG-KP.
 CHINA, supported by the PHILIPPINES,
Delegates also discussed a submission by the EU regarding the Chair’s negotiating text (FCCC/KP/AWG/2011/CRP.2/Rev.1) with many countries expressing concerns that the option to increase levels of ambition was not strong enough.
The US said the content of NDCs is being negotiated elsewhere.
The US noted the cost of holding Bureau meetings and suggested that these be defrayed by streamlining, such as holding Bureau meetings back-to-back in the same location as regular IPCC sessions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported, inter alia: work under the APA until 2018, at which time CMA 1 could reconvene; and capturing progress through co-chairs’ notes rather than formal conclusions or decisions.
 The EU fully and unequivocally supported the Ministerial Declaration and GHANA said the FCCC is “a matter of life and death,” and noted the need for the Declaration.
Argentina, \t\tsupported by AOSIS, emphasized the importance of information gathering \t\tand maintaining this issue on the agenda.
BRAZIL emphasized knowledge and information sharing.
Noting the recent submissions from the G-77/China and EIG on workstream 2, the US, the EU and AUSTRALIA called for time to fully discuss them.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed support for an eight-year second commitment period, emphasizing the mid-term review of QELROs and the need to maintain a flexible process.
AUSTRIA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported the experiment of using anonymous reviews.
The US said expanding access to only one type of NGO would be inappropriate and suggested that existing consultative channels for all NGOs be strengthened.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT and ALGERIA, suggested that proposals of P&amp;Ms should be accompanied by an analysis of their impacts on developing countries, in particular with regard to economic growth and international trade.
AOSIS, with Colombia, said Protocol Article 6 (Joint Implementation) and 12 (CDM) should be given equal treatment in the context of share of proceeds for adaptation, as this would ensure real additional funds for adaptation, sufficient funds for administrative costs, and no additional transaction costs for the CDM.
She also noted the emerging consensus that a core element of the Copenhagen accord should be to mobilize US$10 billion a year by 2012 to support adaptation and mitigation in developing countries.
These concerns are adequately addressed by the AOSIS draft protocol on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the need \t\tfor disseminating information on climate change impacts at regional and \t\tlocal levels.
AOSIS thanked the Co-Chairs for the time dedicated to workstream 2 in Bonn.
On the table itself, delegates also agreed to changes proposed by \t\tGERMANY and others on what is meant by 93market maturity, 94 and by JAPAN \t\tand KOREA on the inclusion of reference to the two types of ocean \t\tstorage: direct injection 93dissolution type 94 and direct injection 93lake \t\ttype.
SWITZERLAND described an international expert meeting for assessing and meeting technology needs, which was co-sponsored by the Netherlands.
BRAZIL identified a two-track process explaining \t\tthat the \t\t \t\tAWG will lead to legally \t\tbinding mitigation by \t\t \t\tAnnex I countries.
Regarding accounting for human-induced and natural changes in carbon stocks, SWITZERLAND supported a political rather than technical decision to distinguish human-induced and natural changes.
The G-77/CHINA called for improved data and information from Annex II parties, and full funding for non-Annex I communications.
The meeting decided to continue the deliberations in a contact group co-chaired by SBI Chair John Ashe and Dan Reifsnyder (US).
The G-77/CHINA said the structure of the text should be streamlined and emphasized that the key message on adaptation finance should not be lost.
The EU emphasized that the political context should also be a scientific one to ensure environmental integrity, and political and technical decisions should be made in parallel.
He highlighted that the US would pledge new risk insurance initiatives on Tuesday, 1 December, that help vulnerable populations rebuild stronger after climate-related disasters.
 CHINA noted that developing country participation in the IPCC could be improved.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, also highlighted issues related to the LDC Fund and continued support for NAPAs.
The G-77/ China supported the EU 92s principles on additionality and said it should be considered on a project-by-project basis.
SAMOA and INDIA suggested that some issues could be forwarded to the SBI, including promoting the creation of an enabling environment for adaptation and the use of research networks.
On Decision-Making, SAUDI ARABIA said decisions would be adopted by consensus, and in case of failure, by a three-fourths majority vote.
NORWAY, the LMDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP supported a general anchoring provision.
The US highlighted the need for "new aims" and strengthening the process of negotiations through the SBI in the post-2000 era.
With regard to the Bureau, COSTA RICA, on behalf of the Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC), said it will put forward Argentina (Chair of the AGBM), Antigua and Barbuda, and Costa Rica (Vice-Chair).
On Scope of Application, AUSTRALIA suggested specifying the provisions on Annex I Parties 92 obligations to which the system would apply.
Responding to AUSTRALIA on harnessing solar energy potential, he: noted Portugal e2 80 99s EU-defined and national renewable energy targets of 31% by 2020 and 40% by 2030 of final energy consumption, respectively; and said Portugal has a national plan to promote renewables, with future capacity increases expected to come from solar energy and biomass.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said the text of the BM must be the starting point for future work, and added that the process will not include any new commitments.
On Parties participating in JI, the EU said they should have ratified the Protocol and be bound by a compliance regime.
INDIA proposed the establishment of a new financial mechanism under Convention Article 11 (financial mechanism).
SAUDI ARABIA said the impact of response measures needs to be addressed.
In presenting its preliminary views, JAPAN proposed a single compliance body and outlined steps ranging from assistance to recommendations to be exhausted before the entry into force of consequences.
The UK, EU, Germany, Sweden and Norway expressed concern regarding lack of balance in the report between environmental goals and the nature of other co-benefits and risks, particularly adverse side effects.
Benin, for the LDCs, supported by Barbados, Jamaica, the Federated States of Micronesia, Brazil, Zambia and Trinidad and Tobago expressed concern over including CCS under the CDM.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said a permanent forum is necessary to report, evaluate and address the specific needs and concerns of non-Annex I countries.
On Tuesday, 21 November, youth representatives from Kenya and the UK reported to COP-6 on the International Youth Conference held the previous week, which was attended by 118 young people from 61 countries, and urged all delegates to read and address the Youth Declaration.
During the deliberations, the EU and JUSCANZ members reiterated their respective positions on the timing and nature of further activities on P&amp;Ms.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, said progress on developed country mitigation has not been comparable to progress on developing country mitigation actions.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL, INDIA and CHINA opposed this addition.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern on “delinking” textual language from the Convention and dilution of Convention principles, particularly on differentiation.
On the fund establishment process, the US proposed inviting ministries of finance to convene a transitional working group in a series of meetings open to all interested parties and led by finance ministers.
The US \t\tsupported an ad hoc expert group to start the programme of work.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed establishing a capacity-building committee under the Convention, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, which called for a structured assessment of capacity needs.
The US stressed the need for transparent information, clear and realistic objectives, and an efficient and flexible programme.
BANGLADESH called for adequate, predictable and sustainable funding, as well as new and additional resources, and said the 2% levy on the CDM was inadequate.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented that the Co-Chairs had not fulfilled their mandate to produce a balanced text.
La ef bf bdavasa Malua (Samoa), Chair of the LDC Expert Group (LEG), outlined outcomes of the LEG ef bf bds activities, noting that many LDC stakeholders have expressed the need for longer-term support.
 Zimbabwe, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, suggested a new work programme focused on specific adaptation actions.
KIRIBATI and FIJI \t\tstressed that adaptation measures should respond only to the adverse \t\timpacts of climate change, and not to the adverse impacts of mitigation \t\tmeasures.
 Key leaders met from 14-15 November 2009, in Singapore, at the 17th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting.
During the closing AWG-KP plenary, the G-77/China again expressed concern that some options introduced in the mechanisms group were outside the mandate of the group, and the EU urged that mandate issues be resolved.
India, for BASIC, said that the full elaboration of the ADP’s work plan will be possible only after the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP have concluded their work and that an outcome should reflect the historical responsibility of developed countries.
The US noted movement on a number of critical issues on adaptation, finance, technology, the Review, and a new market mechanism.
Emphasizing that current mechanisms for technology development and transfer are inadequate, TURKEY called for: an effective, dynamic and transparent mechanism; regular and effective information exchange of its bodies; balanced representation of developing and developed countries; consideration of different national circumstances; and cooperation of the mechanism’s bodies with the SBs and relevant bodies outside the UNFCCC.
The EU stressed the importance of "true" additionality.
Uganda, for LDCs, presented on NAPA experiences, reflecting on good practices and gaps, noting the value of capacity building in enhancing knowledge and skills in the NAPA process.
The EU and the UMBRELLA GROUP called for agreement on modalities and procedures for the technical experts for ICA.
SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern that since some Parties did not wish to include a principles section, placing the precautionary approach there might result in its eventual exclusion.
CANADA emphasized risk \t\tassessment and management, and stressed the importance of engaging both \t\tpractitioners and policy makers.
 With regard to paragraph III on the development and refinement of methodologies, AUSTRALIA said that brackets on "individual and" should be deleted but Kuwait disagreed.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, objected to the absence of language on adaptation, with the Philippines adding that the word was “profusely used” in previous discussions.
The EU and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported the proposal for a compilation text.
The US discussed the current capacity of the IPCC to undertake further methodological work, the structure envisioned by the IPCC to accommodate the short- and long-term needs of the Parties, and the expertise required to support work.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined economic and social consequences of mitigation actions.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA agreed that the AWG-KP should move forward on its own, and proposed using either the public announcements by the US or other numbers, such as a 25% or 45% reduction, as an assumption.
 The US, supported by the EU, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, objected to the proposal on substantive, rather than procedural, grounds.
AOSIS, called for an “action-oriented focus.” SOUTH AFRICA called for identifying vulnerabilities.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), urged an ambitious outcome responding with the urgency needed and guaranteeing the long-term survival of small island developing states (SIDS), LDCs, and other vulnerable groups.
The EU supported making the Nairobi Work Programme (NWP) more relevant for practitioners.
Based on written submissions from Germany and the US (FCCC/SBSTA/1996/ Misc.1), they negotiated how reporting should occur, whether at the programme or project level, and how monitoring and verification of projects would be conducted.
AOSIS called for synchronizing the IAR cycles with the global stocktake as early as possible in 2018 as an input to the 2018 facilitative dialogue, and urged the scientific community to provide research on 1.5 c2 baC scenarios.
The US, France, Mali, Mexico, Finland, the Maldives and others expressed openness to a hybrid financing approach, with caveats.
SOUTH AFRICA sought clarification on what screening was.
CHINA, supported by ITALY, the EU and FINLAND, said that promoting “implementation” was more appropriate than promoting “compliance" since an MCP’s function should be advisory.
With the G-77/CHINA and the US, the EU said the Protocol did not create property rights, and stated that emissions trading was a way of fulfilling obligations under the Protocol.
Mexico, supported by the UK, cautioned that a larger group could compromise efficiency.
COLOMBIA urged “thinking outside the box” and, with the EU, suggested exploring the issues in more informal settings, such as sub-groups.
On achieving QELROs, the PHILIPPINES, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL called for focusing on commitments, with the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noting that there is no place for “minimum expectations” in a legally binding agreement.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, thanked COP President \t\tWitoelar for providing another chance to reach agreement on the issue in \t\tinformal discussions under the COP.
AOSIS highlighted environmental integrity and proposed retaining the option of no COP/MOP decision, while recognizing the usefulness of discussing proposals that improve access to the CDM.
 The EU also suggested that the US proposal regarding establishment of long-term goals could be incorporated into the new EU submission and should be deleted.
At the request of the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and other Parties, the title of the draft conclusion was amended to read "land use, land use change and forestry."
Spain, for the EU, with AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the GAMBIA and others, called for the consideration of bunker fuels.
 INDIA, supported by CHINA, noted that there were no experts nominated from some countries.
INDIA said the underlying basis of the goals must be agreed to before the specific goals themselves, and decisions should be based on equity.
\t\tALGERIA, CHINA, IRAN, UAE and others said a review should not imply any \t\tnew commitments for non-Annex I parties.
SWITZERLAND added that the responsibility for organization should be given to the Secretariat and that the workshop should discuss a business consultative mechanism.
China, on behalf of BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India and China), said that, although disappointed with certain aspects of the package, members of the group accept the decisions and promised a “proactive approach” to deal with climate change in the future.
On the \t\torganization of intergovernmental meetings and the recommendations of a \t\tworkshop held during SB 21, the G-77/CHINA opposed specific references \t\tto giving further consideration to the clustering of agenda items and \t\tlonger-term cycles for agenda items.
The US did not see a need for annexes on P&amp;Ms. CANADA favored an annex describing commitments clearly in order to facilitate their rapid adjustment.
 CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, INDIA, BURKINA FASO, MALAYSIA and the G-77/CHINA, proposed stating that any new substantive proposals must be communicated in draft form to all Parties six months before the ministerial segment.
AUSTRALIA and others expressed concerns about adding pre-conference events that would result in three weeks of meetings, and about the workload implications of parallel ministerial meetings.
CHINA proposed that support for NAMAs should be provided through the Convention’s mechanisms.
LATVIA supported ROMANIA and POLAND in stressing the need for comparability of methodologies.
JAMAICA supported the establishment of regional climate centers that could have a mandate to: strengthen monitoring and analysis of climate change and sea-level rise; identify areas of vulnerability; help develop integrated management and planning frameworks for response measures; enhance institutional strengthening and human resource development; and identify and evaluate policy options that could be integrated into the national agenda.
AUSTRALIA proposed criteria for AIJ including crediting, cost-effectiveness of projects and additionality.
The US, supported by JAPAN and the EU, called for collaboration with ICAO and IMO specifically in studies on bunker emissions.
CANADA noted that their emissions are currently at 2000 levels but highlighted progress in decoupling emissions from economic growth.
AUSTRALIA added that appropriate safeguards would be built into Articles 5, 7 and 8 and the provisions on registries.
VENEZUELA said that developed countries were using “green excuses” to get out of their historical responsibilities.
After several additional proposals by China, the Netherlands, the US and the Republic of Korea, the Chair noted that the discussion must come to an end, closed the debate and suggested that the Committee adopt the text with the original compromise suggested by the Republic of Korea, on behalf of the G-77 and China, and accepted by the EU.
The EU underlined the role of the carbon market, innovative financing and leveraging private investments, and suggested examining proposals before the Ghana meeting.
CHINA questioned the Synthesis Report 92s added value and stated that if the Synthesis Report is prepared, it should provide a full explanation of uncertainties to avoid misleading policymakers.
AOSIS, supported by several developing countries, expressed concern that the informal meeting was going beyond the mandate agreed at SBSTA-11 and, with the EU, objected to the consideration of draft elements for a decision, noting that many issues remain to be analyzed and discussed.
BRAZIL, with the US and NORWAY, highlighted that many of the REDD-plus principles, including financing and MRV, are dealt with in the mitigation text on NAMAs.
The UK outlined emissions projects and stressed the need for the development of low carbon technologies, immediate use of existing technologies, and clean development trajectories.
In the subsequent discussion, SAUDI ARABIA said there seemed to be agreement that the Protocol will have an impact on fossil fuel exporters, although there might be divergence over the extent of this impact.
The main challenge for negotiations on the framework on mitigation is clear: “we have learned from the Kyoto experience that without developing country participation, US involvement is unlikely, and there will be no agreement in Copenhagen without the US,” one veteran assessed.
AOSIS was among the few voices criticizing the impact of flexibility, saying it could compromise commitments to emission reductions.
The EU also emphasized the need to consider the outcome \t\t\tof the Secretariat’s technical paper relating to practices by other \t\t\tUN agencies and the insurability of risks, before charting a course \t\t\tof action.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, underscored the need for further information on the assumptions underpinning countries’ pledges.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted progress had been made and more remains to be done.
The US expressed \t\tdisappointment.
He stressed that technology development and transfer must address both adaptation and mitigation, and take into account the special concerns of small island developing states (SIDS), especially those dealing with economies of scale and geographical remoteness.
On timing for non-Annex I national communications, the SBI considered draft conclusions by the Co-Chairs of the contact group, including proposed draft decisions by the G-77/CHINA and the EU as annexes.
The EU suggested \t\tnoting the emerging practice of inclusiveness.
The Umbrella Group (a group of developed countries, including the US, \t\tCanada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Norway and Iceland) stressed \t\tprivate sector involvement and creating an enabling environment.
Delegates discussed this suggestion, and URUGUAY said the Secretariat could prepare a paper on relevant disciplines for the TAPs.
The EU highlighted the importance of standardized baselines in ensuring certainty, predictability and transparency under the CDM.
CHINA said effective disaster response includes capacity building, infrastructure development, monitoring and early warning systems, international and regional cooperation, and insurance instruments.
 Following the introduction of the AOSIS protocol and the German elements paper in the Plenary, Working Group I discussed the adequacy of commitments.
Argentina, Fiji, Colombia, Mauritius, Chile, Malaysia and Bolivia supported the AOSIS protocol, while expressing concern that Annex I Parties were not able to meet current commitments.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, noted that the proposals provide a range of useful policies and measures, but such proposals alone, without QELROs, cannot significantly advance this process.
INDIA called for “factoring in” differentiation.
SOUTH AFRICA reiterated the G-77/ China 92s support for mandatory consequences.
The EU informed its INDC would have a 2030 target, and suggested: a robust mid-term review; and including mitigation commitments in a legally-binding annex, with details of the cycle to be defined in COP decisions.
The US noted that the internal definitions by the Secretariat of their roles and responsibilities would be useful in a redefinition.
SAUDI ARABIA, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, KUWAIT, JAPAN, EGYPT and QATAR expressed support for consideration of a draft decision on how to include CCS under the CDM.
CHINA urged a clear road map with targets for public funding from developed countries and progressively scaled up finance.
CHINA said the development and transfer of technologies for \t\tadaptation and mitigation can yield commercial benefits, but noted \t\tman-made barriers to the effective operation of the market.
The AFRICAN GROUP, BOLIVIA and TUVALU noted the importance of the implementation of adaptation actions.
 JAPAN said that many delegations present at this meeting were also present at the negotiations for the GEF-adopted annex and the text should not be reopened.
She stressed that, for AOSIS, the global minimum level of ambition is stabilizing GHG concentrations at below 350 parts per million of CO2 equivalence and keeping temperature increase to below 1.5°C.
The US supported the Manual serving as a repository of decisions, while FRANCE, for the EU, urged that it be of a technical nature.
On \t\tgeological storage, BELGIUM, with the UK, called for a specific \t\treference to secure reservoirs.
BRAZIL agreed that the registry should bring actions and resources together.
John Mitchell, Met Office, UK, noted progress on detection and attribution, including the increased attribution, over time, of climate change to human activities.
In the afternoon, Co-Chair Lefevere presented eight documents including: a revision of the table presenting options to address the carryover of surplus AAUs; submissions containing parties’ views on the Chair’s text (FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/MISC.6); a proposal to represent the options table in Annex B to allow for comparison of the table headers; an Australian revision of its proposals in option B; a proposed revision of options on new gases in the text based on the outcomes of discussions under the other issues contact group; an Australian proposal on AAUs; an AOSIS proposal on AAUs and LULUCF crediting; and a proposal by the Co-Chairs to reduce text duplicated in both option A and option B.
TUNISIA presented the Djerba Declaration on Tourism and Climate Change, which, inter alia, calls for the IPCC to include tourism in its Fourth Assessment Report.
JAPAN said it would announce a quantified national mid-term target at “an appropriate time” in 2009, based on scientific findings.
AUSTRALIA and MEXICO supported financing for MRV actions.
President Alsogaray announced the receipt of national communications from Armenia, Kazakstan and Indonesia and the signature of the Kyoto Protocol by the US.
BOLIVIA emphasized the importance of enhancing the provision of MOI for developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA said adaptation should be addressed in the context of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects).
Views diverged on whether to include a list of specific elements that the committee must consider in deciding measures and outputs, such as force majeure, and LDCs’ and SIDS’ special circumstances.
The AFRICAN GROUP, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and LDCs urged a second commitment period.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US called for a single transparency system applicable to all.
The UAE and ARGENTINA stressed the importance of enhancing existing arrangements.
Noting the burdens of establishing baselines on a project-by-project basis, JAPAN indicated that standardized baselines could improve the usability and regional distribution of the CDM, but emphasized the importance of guaranteeing environmental integrity.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a registry for nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs), without prejudicing how it would be institutionalized, and a robust MRV process.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said both the TEC and the CTC should have the mission to increase the volume of technology transfer for social development.
Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) will consult informally.
AUSTRALIA, POLAND, the US, EU and other Annex I Parties expressed reservations on a paragraph inviting Annex I Parties to provide information on, inter alia, existing market imperfections and subsidies in the energy sector.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said scaled up funding should mainly come from developed countries’ public resources, amounting to 1.5% of their GDP, with supplementary funding from the private sector.
HONDURAS urged consideration of the role of existing organizations, especially those involved in higher education.
 \t\tJAPAN, the EU, CANADA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AOSIS, opposed by CHINA, \t\tSAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others, supported requesting submissions on \t\tprocedures for amending the Annexes to the Protocol.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested discussing the rules of procedure and the interval of meetings of the governing body.
An economy in transition (EIT) noted that EITs also need capacity building support.
SWITZERLAND emphasized that “rigid interpretations” of the AWG-KP mandate would not help move discussions forward.
JAPAN said COP/MOP 2 should agree to include CCS as \t\ta project activity.
\t\tOthers questioned the replicability of the EU agricultural and rural \t\tdevelopment schemes at a global level.
The EU called for ADP 2-6 to focus on defining: the role of INDCs in operationalizing differentiation; monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) rules; a cycle for increasing post-2020 ambition; and aspects of adaptation and means of implementation (MOI) in the 2015 agreement.
The US proposed moving a paragraph into the decision text that states that non-Annex I Parties can use elements from the guidelines for Annex I national communications on a voluntary basis.
The Secretariat outlined the financial implications of the conclusions, including US$1.4 million for the preparation of the papers, US$5.8 million for conference services for each additional session, and US$1.4 million for developing country participation for each session, totaling US$15.8 million.
BOLIVIA and CANADA emphasized inclusion of LULUCF in the CDM.
The text, as forwarded to the COP, includes the catch-all language, as well as the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS and force majeure.
Regarding the review of the financial mechanism, the EU expressed concern with moving forward on the basis of the Chair 92s draft decision and distributed a new proposal.
The LDCs proposed “noting, as appropriate, the requirements of Article 17.” The LMDCs suggested that focusing on Article 17 could “align us with a position we should not take at this stage,” and, with the US, proposed “noting any relevant timing requirements.”
PERU and PARAGUAY said adaptation should maintain ecosystems, and called for strengthening community participation, including of indigenous communities.
SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN said sectoral targets should be restricted to Annex I parties, with OMAN stating that he would not accept further obligations beyond the UNFCCC.
AUSTRALIA highlighted issues around maintaining commitments between initial and final communications.
The EU suggested basing discussion on the \t\tCo-Chairs 92 proposal, while also considering Australia 92s proposal.
SENEGAL called for an evaluation of vulnerability in Africa by COP-6.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed regional adaptation centers and encouraging financial institutions to provide information to an international clearinghouse and registry on adaptation.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for reference to the global temperature goal.
On "[initial] assigned amounts," the US and Japan stressed that the terminology was dependent on the outcome of the mechanisms group, while Brazil, supported by the G-77/China, said the terminology related to Protocol Article 3.1 (assigned amounts).
The EU stressed that the best adaptation strategy was a workable mitigation regime.
The LDCs and SAUDI ARABIA opposed this proposal.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed satisfaction with the finalization of the gender action plan, and noted this is a strong outcome for women and the climate.
Panelists also considered: the \t\tuse of biodigestors and future technology needs for mitigation and rural \t\tdevelopment in China; the co-benefits of mitigation in terms of \t\tbiodiversity conservation and poverty alleviation; the prospects for \t\tachieving sustainable forest management in the context of the \t\tConvention; the status of techniques for monitoring emission reductions \t\tfrom deforestation in tropical forests; the contribution of the EU ef bf bds \t\tcommon agricultural and rural development policies to address climate \t\tchange; the potential options for mitigating livestock emissions in New \t\tZealand; and experiences from modern biomass utilization in the power \t\tsector in Denmark.
AUSTRALIA and CANADA urged Parties to reach agreement on the rules.
CHINA, supported by HUNGARY, called for a review of FCCC implementation, not just commitments.
TUVALU, supported by the G-77/CHINA and opposed by NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, proposed including development of modalities for the application of the Principles.
 The PHILIPPINES and EL SALVADOR highlighted the need for capacity building and analysis of social impacts for AIJ projects.
The US and EUROPEAN BUSINESS COUNCILS FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY supported a fast-track for CDM projects, early crediting, full transferability of CERs, and a binding compliance regime.
The following views were also expressed: INDIA said natural climate variation and the effects of extraterritorial activities on climate change should be studied in greater detail; PAKISTAN and GEORGIA thought the SAR should be amended to reflect regional differences in climate change; and the PHILIPPINES, INDONESIA, BRAZIL and others said the SAR should be used as a comprehensive whole and not selectively.
JAPAN said IPRs should be protected and highlighted them as fundamental for technology development.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by ICELAND, proposed a new Annex C allowing flexibility in expressing commitments, but stressed that the intention was not to change the nature of commitments.
INDIA emphasized the principles of equity and CBDR and that the stocktake’s scope includes mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
BOLIVIA said the SBI should go beyond taking note of the reports and drew attention to increasing GHG emissions from Annex I parties.
On the share of proceeds, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and UKRAINE supported the option requiring no decision to be made with respect to the issue.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the SBSTA and TAP-T should identify the best available technologies in the energy, transport, industrial, forestry and waste management sectors.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against referring to “contributions” or “commitments.” The US proposed referring to “actions.” Brazil said work that has been done under the Cancun Adaptation Framework and Nairobi Work Programme should be recognized.
GEORGIA cautioned that CDM, in its current form, makes developing countries dependent on the will of developed countries and said there is a need for financial resources to assist developing countries.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, urged timely assistance for \t\tdeveloping countries.
The EU stated that an MCP is needed to solve the performance problems of individual Parties.
The EU suggested parties also consider how the issue of addressing non-permanence would work, inter alia, between different commitment periods.
Acknowledging the importance of adopting rules of procedure, the EU stressed it was not for the SBI to adopt these rules.
INDIA suggested referring to e2 80 9cfull legal parity e2 80 9d instead.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the implementation efforts of the developing countries will depend on the actions of developed countries.
NEW ZEALAND \t\tsuggested that if negotiations were to be concluded in the timeframe \t\tsuggested by some parties, the process will need to be more efficient.
The EU and Australia, for the Umbrella Group, looked forward to further iterations of the non-paper on the elements for a draft negotiating text.
During discussions, SWITZERLAND, TUVALU, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA and CHINA supported a resumed session of the AWG-KP in September or October.
The EU emphasized that the IPCC had indicated that \t\temission reductions required by 2020 from Annex I parties as a group \t\tassociated with the lowest stabilization scenario integrates the use of \t\tflexible mechanisms.
The PHILIPPINES noted that developing countries were penalized for arrears in their contributions by being denied the benefit of the trust fund for participation and inquired whether similar penalties existed for Annex I countries.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized linkages between climate and sustainable development policies.
On response measures, SAUDI ARABIA proposed considering intellectual property rights (IPRs).
UGANDA, for the LDCs, said the focus should be on making current institutions more responsive and less expensive due to limited resources.
The US said a comparison between current contributions and expected contributions under an assessed scale would be informative.
The EU highlighted the necessity of starting negotiations on the text and listed paragraphs where he believed rapid progress could be made.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that action on adaptation and loss and damage cannot be deferred to after 2020.
ARGENTINA said the report on performance indicators demonstrates the need for a more straightforward approach to MRV.
Grenada, for AOSIS, with VENEZUELA and others, underscored that the new text lacks sufficient ambition.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, CANADA, SINGAPORE and CHINA argued that work on bunker fuels should be taken up in relevant international organizations, such as the ICAO and the International Maritime Organization.
The G-77/China expressed concerns over parallel financial initiatives, while the US and Japan highlighted their national initiatives.
NEW ZEALAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the US supported the Argentine voluntary commitment.
CANADA described the term “ODA” as a technical accounting concept.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, suggested a 5% share of proceeds go towards adaptation.
JAPAN supported the concept of a “package deal” but expressed concern with prejudging a legal form for the post-2012 framework and lack of balance in the mitigation section.
Controversies emerged, however, between the EU and China and others over the mandate of the AWG-KP to consider sectoral approaches.
Highlighting the devastation caused by Hurricane Erika, Dominica, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), urged enhanced action on adaptation and loss and damage, and alignment with the Convention’s principles.
The EIG expressed the group e2 80 99s commitment to timely communication of INDCs.
The EU, opposed by several developing countries, cautioned against creating a separate disaster fund for climate-related events.
Regarding the draft preamble, the US requested stating that the assessment process is robust, and reflecting that the Panel’s work rests on the back of the thousands of scientists who contribute to it.
On  , Australia, supported by Japan, Canada, the US and the EU, underscored the importance of institutional arrangements and MRV.
Bolivia, for ALBA, stressed that Durban had not affected the lack of political will by developed countries regarding mitigation commitments, but rather showed a trend to move away from those commitments that are unfulfilled.
AUSTRALIA highlighted local adaptation actions and linkages with sustainable development.
NEW ZEALAND noted the need for refinement of policy objectives.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged maintaining the same mode of advancement on all items, including balanced time allocation.
Informal \t\tconsultations were coordinated by Angela Churie-Kallhauge (Sweden) and \t\tAl Waleed Hamad Al-Malik (UAE), with a view to taking a procedural \t\tdecision on these two agenda items in SBSTA on 10 November.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, recalled Convention Article 4.7, which makes developing countries’ commitments conditional to developed country assistance.
The US
CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and AUSTRALIA endorsed the continuation of climate change research conducted by IGOs and national governments.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA urged increased mitigation efforts and parity of mitigation with adaptation.
She also reported on the Climate Technology Initiative (CTI) on behalf of the OECD and the EUROPEAN COMMISSION.
India, the UAE, China, Belize and Tuvalu opposed.
Nauru, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for including a mechanism on loss and damage in the 2015 agreement, and for clarifying that the COP 21 outcome will be a legally-binding protocol under the Convention and keep global warming below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The EU expressed concern with language requiring regional and global assessments, noting that if every mitigation action undertaken by Annex I countries has to undergo a regional and global review process, it would significantly undermine the purpose of the Protocol to take prompt mitigation actions.
The US preferred using the Durban Forum on Capacity-building under the new agreement.
KENYA called for increased assistance for adaptation projects and the development of climate policies and strategies.
Emphasizing historical responsibility, CHINA outlined criteria involving cumulative emissions and said developed countries should cut their emissions significantly to allow developing countries the space to develop.
The EU noted the role of the private sector in creating enabling environments.
AOSIS requested bracketing parts of the text, including sections containing: the amended Protocol Annex B with parties’ mitigation commitments; text on eligibility to participate in the flexibility mechanisms; and text on the fulfillment of the AWG-KP’s mandate and conclusion of its work.
Panelists presented on: engaging with the financial sector in the context of policy development; the UK e2 80 99s small-scale FiT scheme; South Africa e2 80 99s Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme; and Chile e2 80 99s experience in engaging commercial banks in the sector.
AUSTRALIA said incentives were needed for the private sector.
CHINA highlighted the legal obligation for technology transfer and called for an international technology transfer fund.
The EU said the finance text should build on the Convention while e2 80 9ccapturing the world as it is.
SAMOA called for levying a "share of proceeds" on all three mechanisms.
They also disagreed on the need for national adaptation programmes of action, with the US stating that this was being considered by the contact group on adverse effects.
TANZANIA cautioned against referencing human rights “which could be used as barrier to access support.”
Ethiopia, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), emphasized the need for improved predictability of financial flows through addressing ex ante information, and highlighted loss and damage as a critical component of the global response to climate change.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said the full potential of the mechanisms should be realized, including unilateral CDM.
The US opposed specific reference to Articles 6 and 17, and noted a paragraph leaving the door open for future linking through Article 7 and relevant decisions by the COP or COP/MOP.
AOSIS emphasized that if everyone waits for action in other groups, there will be nothing on the table and recommended that the contact group continue work and then make textual adjustments at a later stage to make it consistent with the larger framework.
The UK clarified that there were two types of obligations, namely obligations of conduct and obligations of result.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said work under the ADP should include all pillars of the BAP.
On technology needs assessment, the EU supported referring to existing activities and to reporting.
The EU said impact assessments should be considered in the modalities.
On the plenary of the Compliance Committee, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, EU, AUSTRALIA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND, said it should have an allocation as well as a preliminary examination function.
ARGENTINA said that a joint discussion is premature.
MOROCCO said an MCP could play both an advisory and a supervisory role.
The EU stated that consideration of this issue by the SBSTA is premature, while Brazil stressed problems caused by the use of GWPs, saying this has resulted in misguided mitigation efforts.
BRAZIL commended delegates for putting this process in a position to start negotiating in its next session.
INDIA, supported by BRAZIL, questioned the increased focus on LULUCF issues, stressing the large impact of Annex I parties’ fossil fuel emissions.
URUGUAY and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA described their initial communications and national efforts underway to limit GHGs.
e2 80 9d MEXICO and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the equal importance of adaptation and mitigation.
TUVALU cautioned against referring to e2 80 9ccontributions e2 80 9d or e2 80 9ccommitments.
The EU proposed elaborating confidential information to include "confidential business or military information" as referred to in similar paragraphs of the Montreal Protocol.
SAMOA asked whether the "equivalence" of possible consequences a Party could choose from would be in terms of their impact on the environment.
 The EU urged countries to provide input in legal language and streamline the Framework Compilation text by focusing on achievable options.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the importance of the LDC work programme and welcomed the decision to extend the LEG’s mandate.
The EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AOSIS, G-77/CHINA and LDCs expressed willingness to work with the draft as a starting point, though taking issue with certain parts.
He said that although the US has developed one of the most comprehensive action plans, preliminary analysis shows that the US will not return greenhouse gas emissions to their 1990 levels by 2000.
The US said actions undertaken to reduce HCFs and PFCs must not undermine the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL then provided clarification regarding their proposals on various issues such as Annex I parties’ commitments and carryover of surplus AAUs, and also identified mistakes in the Chair’s text.
 In its conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2010/L.27), the SBI requests the LDC Expert Group (LEG) to discuss with the GEF and its agencies ways to further improve access of funds from the LDCF, the disbursement of funds, the design of implementation strategies for NAPAs and remaining challenges faced by LDCs in working with GEF agencies, during the first meeting of the LEG in 2011.
Delegates engaged in an initial \t\texchange of views, in which the G-77/China and AOSIS reiterated their \t\tcall for action-oriented measures and said that the need to expedite \t\tthese should not be restricted by calls for further assessments.
ECUADOR, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, MEXICO, and BOLIVIA welcomed the Platform, highlighting the leadership of indigenous peoples in its operationalization.
Supported by Norway, the EU reiterated a step-wise approach that couples nationally-driven approaches with international coordination.
On election of officers other than President, delegates elected Bakary Kante SENEGAL) SBI Chair, a representative of IRAN SBI Vice Chair, George Manful (GHANA), T. Gzirishvili (GEORGIA), Anthony Clarke (CANADA), Cornelia Quennet- Thielen (GERMANY), Sergio Selaya Bonilla (HONDURAS), Luis Herrera (VENEZUELA), Kok Kee Chow (MALAYSIA) and Espen Ronneberg (MARSHALL ISLANDS), Vice Presidents, and Maciej Sadowski (POLAND) Rapporteur.
Following a question by SAUDI ARABIA, he said the enforcement component of the compliance entity would primarily deal with developed country obligations under Article 3.1.
The EU said that LDC national adaptation programmes of action should be considered in national communications.
MEXICO underscored using GDP, population and emissions as indicators to assess contributions, and reminded that financing for the UN is based on assessed contributions.
Kiyotaka Akasaka, OECD Deputy Secretary-General, said OECD works with its member States to strengthen the use of market-based mechanisms to limit climate change while contributing to sustainable economic development.
INDIA called for agreement on an overall emission reduction target for all Annex I countries under the AWG-LCA, and proposed reductions of at least 40% from 1990.
Sensitivities around this issue were heightened by a perception among many developing countries that developed countries are not on track to deliver on their commitment to mobilize US$100 billion by 2020.
On review, the EU called for a commitment cycle of 10 years and, supported by the US, for a five-year cycle of review and revision.
Sweden, for the EU, underlined that in Copenhagen parties have to reach a legally-binding agreement that includes all nations, embraces the target of limiting temperature increase to below 2°C, sets out ambitious emission reduction targets and scales up public and private finance.
The EU urged parties to accept the new text as the basis for negotiations in Copenhagen and the US underscored the need for concise and streamlined text on a shared vision.
  Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed including implications of using various metrics to calculate carbon dioxide equivalents on the SBSTA 30 agenda.
The US made textual edits to allow for, among others, the possibility of UNEP to contribute additional staff to defray costs.
Supported by NEW ZEALAND, she suggested discussion on the issue of linkage between Articles 5, 7 and 8 and Article 4 (joint fulfillment of commitments).
The EU said that differentiation should apply not only to mitigation but also to adaptation.
e2 80 9d The AFRICAN GROUP agreed.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with the procedure used for adoption of the Geneva Declaration, calling for transparent decision making.
Other issues to be discussed include: cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy; the implementation of Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms); special circumstances of Croatia under UNFCCC Article 4.6 (flexibility for countries with economies in transition); the Croatian proposal on forest management activities under Protocol Article 3.4 (additional activities); a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 7.4 (registries) in relation to cleaner energy exports; the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova (CACAM) for the clarification of the term "developing countries" in the context of UNFCCC decisions; review of the adequacy of commitments under the UNFCCC; and a series of administrative and organizational matters.
CHINA and BRAZIL highlighted that in developing countries, MRV should take place nationally.
The EU noted its proposed new sectoral crediting mechanism, which would also require an amendment to the Protocol.
The US suggested, and participants agreed, to text stating that e2 80 9crisks are unevenly distributed and are generally greater for disadvantaged people and communities in countries at all levels of development.
BELARUS confirmed its target of reducing emissions between 5 -10% from 1990 levels by 2020.
UGANDA said policies and political will were required, and, supported by ARGENTINA, urged promoting South-South cooperation in transferring adaptation technologies.
 SAUDI ARABIA said that a reference regarding emissions from bunker fuels would be part of the SBSTA work and should not be included here.
 The EU also reported that the EU Council had reached a common position on QELROS.
CANADA emphasized the need to provide support for adaptation to the poorest and most vulnerable countries, and called for creation of an architecture that maximizes the effectiveness of delivery.
Some Parties, including the MARSHALL ISLANDS, SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, objected to the establishment of an intergovernmental body on economic instruments since this work is currently being done by IPCC Working Group 3, and suggested that UNEP channel its resources and efforts through the IPCC.
The US urged participants not to \t\t\treassess the underlying assessment, and Belgium reminded \t\t\tparticipants that the SPM was a summary “for” policy makers and not \t\t\t“by” policy makers.
The US also outlined plans for a legally-binding and economy-wide national system, highlighting a long-term perspective.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and \t\t\tINDIA, called for reference to UNFCCC Article 4.3, 4.4, and 4.7 \t\t\trelating to financial commitments from developed countries.
ICELAND underlined the need for additional efforts to fulfill the Berlin Mandate.
Non-Annex I Communications: The non-Annex I communications contact group met in an evening session and discussed proposals submitted by the EU and the G-77/China for the draft decision.
SWITZERLAND supported the GEF’s role as the operating entity of the financial mechanism and as a catalyst for leveraging finance, noting that it was crucial to improve performance.
The US said any decision on review should include a provision that it be a regular item on the COP agenda.
The EU, said discussions should focus on technology transfer, particularly issues relevant to discussions under the AWG-LCA, and the financial mechanism.
TIMOR LESTE and SENEGAL urged linking adaptation and long-term mitigation measures.
SAUDI ARABIA noted the efforts made by the G-77/China and stressed that other issues must be considered.
AOSIS, ROMANIA, HUNGARY, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NORWAY, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, GAMBIA and IRAN supported a more flexible approach, by which the revised methods would be applied as a supplement to the 1995 IPCC Guidelines on a voluntary basis for inventories due in April 1997 and on a mandatory basis for 1998 and 1999.
The EU also stressed need for further evolution of the market mechanisms.
The EU, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA and others, indicated that it was not necessary to include a list of comparability criteria in the outcome.
BOLIVIA, supported by NICARAGUA, called for also analyzing the 1°C target.
The EU withdrew its informal proposal.
MEXICO proposed text on transfer of technology relating to early warning systems, and the communication of adaptation efforts for stocktaking by the high-level session.
Supporting a move to a \t\tformal process, NEW ZEALAND suggested also merging the AWG and Article 9 \t\treview processes.
ETHIOPIA said science, not access to mechanisms, should determine emission reduction targets, underlining the need to first agree on targets before discussing means of achieving the targets.
Responding to concerns raised by BRAZIL about opening Protocol Article 3.4 (additional activities) for discussion, parties agreed to remove a reference to additional activities under Article 3.4.
He also indicated that the US$100 billion per year of long-term finance would be “grossly inadequate” for assisting countries in adaptation.
With COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, SLOVENIA, SENEGAL, NIGERIA, and IRAN, NORWAY called CDM a tool for sustainable development in non-Annex I countries that should also contribute to climate change objectives.
The US underscored economic changes since the 1990s and changes in emissions shares between Annex I and non-Annex I parties.
PAKISTAN suggested different cycles for full national communications, with different cycles for different countries.
AUSTRALIA, with the US, supported working toward a draft decision.
BOLIVIA called for a focus on a top-down approach and questioned how much atmospheric space remains for developing countries.
ARGENTINA, supported by VENEZUELA and CHILE, preferred a “gas-by-gas approach”.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the Group’s joint submission on transparency, MRV and international consultation and analysis (ICA).
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS and supported by CHILE, proposed a coordination mechanism that would create a subsidiary body to provide advice to the Parties and offer a forum for the negotiation of specific economic, administrative and other instruments.
The EU asked whether limitations in BECCS’ deployment potential might be expressed in terms of land area, but the authors explained that this was impossible because the varying qualities of land complicates efforts to reduce it to common measures such as acres.
\t\tMICRONESIA, for AOSIS, emphasized data collection, and technologies for \t\tadaptation.
The US suggested that the enforcement branch 92s mandate include, inter alia: determining non-compliance with Protocol Article 3.1 (commitments); determining failure to meet eligibility requirements for mechanisms; and applying outcomes that have been agreed in advance, with discretion regarding submission of issues to the facilitation branch.
INDONESIA said the shared vision section of the text must be consistent with the Bali Action Plan.
BELARUS welcomed the reflection of the interests of countries that need support, including those with economies in transition.
FRANCE called for more work on the transportation sector, as it is critical in terms of energy use.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the need for developed countries to increase their level of ambition and to take on targets during a second commitment period.
SOUTH AFRICA urged communication in a tabular format of: the type of contribution for 2021-2025 and 2026-2030; information on adaptation plans, actions, costs and investments; and MOI support.
The EU emphasized the need to deepen understanding in order to strive to minimize adverse impacts.
On the role of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organization (IMO) in regulating aviation and shipping emissions, SINGAPORE, MEXICO and the US proposed that those organizations take the lead, while the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, TUVALU and others suggested that the Convention’s guidance is necessary.
In closing statements, Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment with the outcome under mitigation, describing it as “one of the very few weak points in the outcome so far.” Chair Ashe closed the AWG-KP shortly after 1:00 am.
 CANADA and the US called for realistic scenarios.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS said the workshop last week showed that emissions reduction was not a matter of “if,” but “when” and “how much more.” A possible 80% loss of land in the Marshall Islands makes this issue more than dangerous.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, and CANADA indicated commitment to scaling up climate finance to the US$100 billion goal by 2020.
SRI LANKA stressed all-region adaptation training.
The G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA urged retaining reference to the specific organizations, and particularly OPEC.
KUWAIT said this proposal was premature.
Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of Lesotho, for the LDCs, noted progress by LDCs in developing their national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs), and called for scaling up accessible, predictable and sustainable finance for LDCs that is additional to official development assistance.
SINGAPORE emphasized the \t\t\tcost-effectiveness of reducing deforestation in mitigation.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need for predictability and assessment of financing needs.
CHINA, the EU \t\tand others outlined their capacity building activities.
CHINA added that market-based mechanisms should not link unilateral measures with multilateral processes.
The EU \t\tstressed carbon markets, LULUCF and privileges and immunities.
Chair \t\tStoycheva reported on a meeting of the SBSTA and SBI Chairs and the \t\tChairs of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer, Consultative Group of \t\tExperts on non-Annex I national communications, and LDC Expert Group \t\t(LEG) in response to decision 10/CP.8 (development and transfer of \t\ttechnologies) to facilitate collaboration among the expert groups \t\testablished under the UNFCCC.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, proposed, inter alia, identifying information needed for determining the aggregate effect of NDCs.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, the US, SWITZERLAND, CANADA and NORWAY said the third national communication should be due in 2001.
He also: noted, with CHINA, the G-77/CHINA\'s current consideration of this item; called for consideration of rules, guidelines and modalities and other relevant issues; and, with the PHILIPPINES, opposed establishing another contact group on similar issues.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and others noted the need to strengthen and intensify the means of implementation for adaptation.
 QATAR reported on the status of arrangements for COP 18 and CMP 8.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by many parties, expressed willingness to negotiate on the basis of the compilation text with bridging proposals, and proposed that parties be allowed to insert language where necessary and meet separately to discuss specific proposals.
With the US, he stressed the need to work efficiently and take into account existing agenda items and work streams on response measures.
CHINA called for a focus on the cumulative concentration of GHG emissions.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed, stressing the need for the adverse impacts of policies and measures to be treated as a separate item.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized that a common internationally binding base year would not preclude countries from translating their commitments into other reference years for domestic purposes.
NEW ZEALAND explained their proposal for a NAMA crediting and trading mechanism, highlighting its integrated nature.
ARGENTINA expressed hope for an agreement on long-term global objectives, including medium- and long-term commitments, and technological and economic assistance that contributes to the eradication of poverty in developing countries.
Andreas Calgren, Minister for the Environment of Sweden, for the EU, urged parties not to leave Copenhagen without a legally-binding, ambitious, global and comprehensive agreement for all countries, including actions from developed countries and emerging economies.
Katherine Casey Delhotal, US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), presented the US approach for projected greenhouse gas emissions.
Another major area of disagreement \t\twas whether adaptation or mitigation activities should be assigned a \t\thigher priority and greater share of financing, with the US and EU \t\tfavoring mitigation in accordance with Convention Article 2 (Objective) \t\tand COP guidance, and the G-77/China stressing adaptation as the key \t\tconcern for developing countries and the need for the financial \t\tmechanism to be fully responsive to developing countries 92 needs.
The US asked for a listing of those Parties that were offered funding but chose not to attend and asked about the scope of additional contribution being requested.
BANGLADESH suggested updating the technical paper on transforming pledges into QELROs (FCCC/TP/2010/2) and, supported by the EU, that targets be expressed in gigatonnes.
SENEGAL and CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC called for a Climate Change Day.
Mexico, AOSIS and Tuvalu suggested considering regional TEMs.
The NETHERLANDS stressed that outreach \t\tdiscussions could have budgetary implications.
SWITZERLAND asked why there were unspent reserves.
However, some issues remained \t\tunresolved, including items on the LDC Fund, the SCCF, and Protocol \t\tArticle 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
On improving access to financial and technical support (FCCC/SBI/2006/24 and \t\tFCCC/SBI/2006/MISC.14), the CGE, supported by the EU, highlighted linking the preparation of communications with sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies.
With JAPAN and CANADA, she said the enforcement branch should be able to impose facilitative consequences.
Algeria, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), stated that the ADP’s outcome must be in line with the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention and emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
The EU stressed \t\tthe importance of the carbon market and said deeper commitments from \t\tdeveloped countries are required to deliver its potential.
The EU, suggested several elements to deliver financing: continuing with existing mechanisms such as the CDM levy; enhancing the role of national policies; and using carbon markets and innovative financial instruments.
NEW ZEALAND noted that the current reporting requirements form a good basis for MRV for all countries.
 ITALY: Valerio Calzolaio, Vice Minister for the Environment, stated that Italy will promote Mediterranean regional activities as a bridge between Europe and Africa.
Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that developing countries that are able to provide capacity can do so voluntarily.
St. Lucia, for AOSIS, urged that clarity be achieved “once and for all” on the second commitment period, which can frame further discussions on technical issues and underlined the need to focus on finding the political will to move the negotiations forward.
To address the concern of the UK that the chapter heading did not reflect its contents, the title was modified to Social, economic and ethical concepts.
Turkey and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said contributions could be revised on a voluntary basis.
Another participant highlighted that technologies for adaptation, particularly in SIDS, are not always perceived as win-win outcomes for the private sector and would require government intervention for their development.
CANADA, SAMOA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and MAURITIUS favored a combined approach for negotiating P&amp;Ms and QELROS.
AOSIS, PANAMA and SAMOA called for strengthening adaptation.
SINGAPORE, supported by PANAMA, welcomed progress made by the IMO and ICAO in addressing climate change in their respective sectors.
CANADA requested bracketing the proposed text.
He explained that unlike other convention secretariats, this Secretariat will deal with global energy use, which is much broader than the scope of CITES or the Montreal Protocol, and comparisons to the secretariats for international policy reviews, such as the OECD or the trade policy mechanism under GATT, were more accurate.
CHINA, supported by JAPAN, INDIA, MALAYSIA and BOTSWANA, highlighted the importance of building endogenous capacity in developing countries.
Chile, for AILAC, MEXICO and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested nationally determined adaptation commitments, considering: the dynamic nature of action; maladaptation; avoiding additional burdens on developing countries; building on existing tools; promoting human rights; as well as science- and traditional knowledge-based adaptation.
PAKISTAN highlighted the importance of financing enabling environments for renewable energy, and, in particular, for areas not addressed by the GEF.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), emphasized commitment to adopting amendments to the Protocol in Doha with a view to operationalize the second commitment period.
EL SALVADOR and NICARAGUA called for the agreement to recognize the Central American isthmus as a particularly vulnerable area.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed mandating an action platform and a regular meeting of representatives of the Convention bodies.
He stated that US emissions currently stand 5.7% above 1990 levels but 8.7% below 2005 levels, underlining that reductions since 2005 are comparable to other developed countries.
On the negotiations at COP-7, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized his concern with discussions on the development of rules and modalities for accounting of emissions and removals by sinks, and said working documents had become overloaded with technical details.
Responding to questions, he explained c2 a0 that its policy on the use of biofuels is aligned with that of the EU.
UGANDA called for a formal and binding instrument on \t\ttechnology, ICELAND emphasized climate friendly technologies as a way to \t\tmeet emission reductions without halting economic growth, and MALDIVES \t\tcalled for modern cleaner technologies.
 : Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, proposed establishing a REDD+ Committee under the COP.
AUSTRALIA said that reference to a global long-term goal should be set out clearly in the shared vision component of the text.
Peru, for AILAC, suggested that experiences from REDD+ can be useful in establishing baselines and noted that REDD+ guidelines will not be superseded by modalities, procedures and guidelines of the transparency framework.
CANADA noted that guidelines have been useful in preparing national communications and supported a TAP-M for the SBSTA.
He said the EU is committed to a combined approach with policies and measures as well as quantified reductions within specified time-frames.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that there had been useful progress on most of the Durban-mandated tasks.
The EU suggested promoting synergies with national, regional and international organizations to support adaptation action.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed delaying formation of a contact group on this.
 On Monday, delegates agreed that AOSIS could present its draft protocol to the Committee on Wednesday.
The US asked about the financial magnitude of the proposed MTAF, and CHINA replied that funding could be a percentage, such as 1%, of developed country investment in research and development, revenue from energy and environment taxes, and the auction of carbon credits.
AOSIS, the EU and Norway raised concerns over environmental integrity and opposed proposals that would exempt projects from meeting the requirement of additionality.
In 1(b), the EU added a reference to annual inventories, particularly on CO2.
The G-77/ CHINA stressed the need to link the CDI to the overall process under decision 10/CP.5 (capacity building in developing countries) to avoid duplication.
SINGAPORE emphasized that delivery and receipt of support should be subject to MRV and noted that national communications are not a timely or efficient means for conducting MRV of support.
The EU and US noted \t\tpotential resource implications.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and other Annex I Parties questioned the necessity of a further round of submissions, and preferred text supporting action by the Secretariat in time for SB-17.
JAPAN stressed the need to consider the regional distribution of CDM projects.
The G-77/China and the EU highlighted the importance of factoring out, saying it reflected principles agreed in the Marrakesh Accords, and therefore needed to be addressed before the second commitment period.
 \t\t \t\tOn capacity building, SUDAN called for efforts to ensure access to \t\topportunities and adaptive capabilities of people, and TOGO stressed \t\tsolidarity and equity, and the need for awareness raising among young \t\tpeople.
The US called for the resolution of these issues and expected to use them to develop guidelines and national measurement systems that could be ratified by COP-6.
The US stressed concerns about, inter alia: bifurcated guidance on mitigation; bifurcated structures on transparency; references to end dates for flexibility provisions on transparency; loss and damage within transparency and adaptation discussions; scope of the GST; and equity under the GST.
The EU expressed disappointment that consultations had yielded “no progress.” Egypt requested references to next steps in the text.
The EU said an additional session is unnecessary, but if one was decided she suggested October 2018.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored the importance of discussing the legal form, stressing that this is relevant for both governments and the private sector.
AUSTRALIA supported further analytical work to assess adaptation funding.
 \t\tINTERNATIONAL MEETING TO REVIEW THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAMME OF \t\tACTION FOR SIDS:
ICELAND stressed sectoral mitigation \t\tpotential and different national circumstances.
The US, supported by BRAZIL, CANADA and JAPAN, proposed compromise text replacing e2 80 9cthe ADP e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cthe broader UNFCCC.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said COP 21 has produced a global agreement that creates a framework for all nations to play a part in securing a prosperous future, noting the Agreement confirms that developed countries will continue to lead in providing support for climate action, while recognizing the important role that others can play.
NORWAY called for a COP decision linking REDD+ to financial mechanisms and urged that these mechanisms be capitalized.
Citing financial implications, SWITZERLAND said such TEMs should be held back-to-back with other meetings.
BRAZIL noted that its temporary units approach calls for the CDM Executive Board to supervise the issuance of temporary units.
 Christopher West (UK) reported on the breakout group on the integration of approaches to adaptation planning across levels.
Australia, with the US, Canada, Japan and \t\tNew Zealand, supported a broad approach to LULUCF issues, namely an \t\topen-ended policy dialogue.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and UZBEKISTAN said that capacity building was necessary to take full advantage of the clean development mechanism (CDM).
Discussions focused on, inter alia: urging developed countries that have not completed the process of responding to the initial fundraising target to do so at the earliest opportunity; encouraging Annex I parties to provide funding to reach the target of US$80 million per year in 2014-2015, and scale up funding from resources additional to the share of proceeds from CDM project activities, first international transfers of assigned amount units (AAUs) and the issuance of emission reduction units (ERUs); the bidding process for the selection of a permanent trustee for the Adaptation Fund; and to whom to direct the request for further support for the readiness programme.
CANADA supported broadening of the market mechanisms and clarifying the rules.
FRANCE, speaking for the EU, suggested that the momentum from Kyoto had been lost.
AOSIS highlighted that concerns regarding CCS beyond geological formations were even more serious.
Botswana, for the African Group, Uganda, for LDCs, China, Brazil and others stressed the importance of the means of implementation.
Ecuador, for ALBA, underscored a tendency by some parties to distract attention away from the principle objectives of the Convention by focusing on technical and procedural issues.
On Timing, the US suggested setting strict deadlines for submission of reports, while leaving broader issues flexible.
The proposal from the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) garnered widespread support, but was opposed by Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar.
SAUDI ARABIA restated his previous concern regarding the invitation to ICAO and IMO to make statements during this session.
Emphasizing that the public sector should be the main source of finance, BANGLADESH said that global markets had failed to deliver and “no place for LDCs and SIDS” had been created.
The EU identified synergies with their proposal on sectoral crediting, while noting concerns over the attribution of emission reductions and MRV.
With BRAZIL, he expressed concerns over the issue becoming a sectoral approach.
The PHILIPPINES said the proposal intends to send a clear message for further planning and discussion.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION underlined the importance of this discussion as one of the prerequisites to a Copenhagen agreement.
Australia, the US, and the EU opposed this, with the EU saying that the proposal was substantive while the APA conclusions are procedural.
SOUTH AFRICA stated that discussions based on the list were too general and called for a more detailed document.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that the discussion should focus on how to enhance the Convention’s implementation through meeting developed countries’ commitments to provide new and additional financial resources to enable mitigation and adaptation actions.
The G77/CHINA called for: GEF adherence to COP guidance; no funding of activities inconsistent with FCCC principles; and, with EGYPT, attention to adaptation measures.
The EU favored CDM support for adaptation, but stressed a focus on mitigation.
MEXICO supported retaining the text and reference to parties’ submissions.
The US, supported by JAPAN, said that including scientific and technological expertise could lead to duplication of the SBSTA’s work.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized general principles, referencing the purpose of the global stocktake and the Convention.
NORWAY supported a 9% budget increase, while JAPAN reaffirmed its position to support a zero growth budget and to move the interim allocation from the core budget to the supplemental Trust Fund.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed concern with some parties questioning the validity of the Convention after 20 years, and reinterpreting certain terms.
The US raised \t\tconcerns that such text would be policy prescriptive.
JAPAN and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized the importance of monitoring and evaluation.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said work should focus on LULUCF, market mechanisms and common metrics.
ZIMBABWE, for the AFRICA GROUP, and SAMOA, welcomed the focus on vulnerability and adaptation assessment.
CHINA proposed to continue technical streamlining and consider discussions on preambular language that is e2 80 9cmature e2 80 9d for discussion, while holding off on e2 80 9cpremature e2 80 9d preambular sections.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and others endorsed the text as a good basis for further discussion.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, inter alia: said the ICA should be facilitative and lead to the identification of capacity-building needs of developing countries for transparency; called for support from developed countries for the LEG; and emphasized the need to identify actions to address the needs of developing countries arising from negative impacts of response measures.
The US urged discussing this issue together with the IPCC Scholarship Programme.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that a shared vision should address all elements of the Bali Action Plan.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA said the text provides a good basis for work towards a substantive REDD+ decision to be agreed in Cancun.
Several \t\tparties, including AOSIS, the EU, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND suggested work \t\ton annexes and amendments.
94 France, Austria, \t\t\tBelgium, UK, US, Germany, Canada and others opposed changing the \t\t\tconfidence level from what had been assessed by the Lead Authors.
Switzerland, the EU, Peru, for AILAC, the US, Norway and Japan supported the suspension option with a specific deadline, with some suggesting 2018.
MOROCCO called for progress on consolidated \t\tmethodologies for energy efficiency and transportation, and, with \t\tBUSINESS AND INDUSTRY, urged greater flexibility on additionality.
BRAZIL, with many others, supported the text as the basis for discussion.
NORWAY proposed, and parties agreed, that paragraphs in the text be included under only one heading, and not be repeated several times.
YUGOSLAVIA, opposed by the EU, said it could not support Croatia 92s 1990 baseline proposal.
GHANA supported information sharing and training to encourage both women and men to participate in adaptation activities.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported a registry for nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs), without prejudicing how it would be institutionalized, and a robust MRV process.
On IPRs, AUSTRALIA called for greater cooperation with relevant organizations such as the World Intellectual Property Organization and, with the US, noted that IPRs incentivize technology development.
JAPAN said that there is broad agreement on an advisory role.
Malawi, for the LDCs, lamented that text on e2 80 9cencouraging policy signals by governments e2 80 9d does not address provision of climate finance.
BRAZIL stressed that the focus should also be on future technologies and suggested collaboration among the excellence centers.
The EU said the issues going directly to the enforcement branch would be pre-identified.
The EU called for: mitigation commitments for all that would reflect evolving economic realities and development opportunities; tangible progress on pre-2020 ambition; and a draft negotiating text by COP 20.
FIJI said the GCF is needed immediately and called for complementarity with other funding instruments and institutions.
NORWAY, ICELAND, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND, UGANDA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION agreed that a workshop to explore options would be useful.
JAPAN suggested a COP/MOP decision on eligibility of economies in transition for these funds.
BRAZIL, supported by COSTA RICA, favored Option C as in the original Chair’s text, or dropping the whole Article.
AUSTRALIA said the effectiveness of current activities should first be considered.
SOUTH AFRICA informed parties that the South African ambassador will host a public meeting on Saturday to address issues and concerns regarding travel preparations for COP 17.
The UAE said the suggestion by the US would cause confusion, as similar cases taken through Article 19 and the compliance system would have differing results.
During the ensuing discussion, the EU emphasized the need to decide on accounting methods first and set targets afterwards.
NICARAGUA expressed concern over slow progress and lowering of expectations, and pleaded with parties not to leave financing to the carbon market.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the need for greater attention to greenhouse gases (GHGs) other than CO2.
ESTONIA, supported by LATVIA and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, said guidelines should be revised with flexibility.
The Umbrella Group also drew attention to the Group’s joint statement on nature and scale of fast-track financing, highlighting that it “represents billions of dollars.” Spain, for the EU, noted progress during the session, but expressed concern at the slow pace of the discussions, particularly on mitigation.
He explained it also covers prevention and insurance mechanisms, while BRAZIL stated that the proposal does not consider historical emissions.
 These items were taken up together, in joint SBI/SBSTA informal consultations with the report of the Adaptation Committee co-facilitated by Richard Merzian (Australia) and Hamza Tber (Morocco) and on matters relating to LDCs (FCCC/SBI/2017/14) co-facilitated by Malcolm Ridout (UK) and Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso).
The EU recognized the importance of supplementarity and domestic action, while also emphasizing the role of mitigation potential in determining the amount of emission reductions to be achieved through offsetting, and identified the need to “let the market play.” CANADA opposed an international ceiling on the use of credits, stressing it as a domestic policy decision, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted her country’s circumstances and uncertainty over emission trends, including from the agriculture sector.
SWITZERLAND provided the Co-Chairs with a two-page work programme.
The US stressed the need to: use public finance to mobilize private investment; enhance enabling environments; and encourage limiting high-carbon investments and climate-proofing all financial flows.
AOSIS cautioned against making a "crude" distinction between substance and procedure.
MALI, for the LDCs, underscored a simplified operating procedure of the Fund enabling project approval within four months, and employment of local and regional expertise.
GUATEMALA called for \t\ta financial mechanism to help maintain forest cover, and DOMINICAN \t\tREPUBLIC highlighted GEF assistance for the five-year programme of work \t\ton adaptation.
AUSTRALIA flagged the importance of principles, including effectiveness, efficiency, simplicity, consistency, fairness, complementarity, and respect for national sovereignty.
On guidance to the GEF for implementation of the remaining elements of the LDC work programme, Malawi said the SBI should mandate the GEF to consider making resources available for the full work programme.
 The REPUBLIC of KOREA said cross-sectoral economic instruments and energy efficiency measures based on high technology have significant trade impacts.
UGANDA, the GAMBIA, NEPAL, BURKINA FASO, the US and others said the needs and concerns of least developed countries should be clearly articulated in the text and in decisions.
CHINA cautioned against establishing vulnerability criteria based on national circumstances, respective financial and technical capabilities, levels of risk and impacts, as well as levels of poverty.
SENEGAL asked if this action meant the Bureau will be expanded.
GERMANY noted that including such a reference could falsely \t\tsuggest that EOR is a large opportunity.
 \t\t\tSouth Africa, \t\t\tfor the G-77/CHINA, stressed the urgency of the AWG’s work and \t\t\tcalled for a focus on “what needs to be done.” He proposed \t\t\tdiscussing mitigation potentials in Bonn, possible ranges in Vienna, \t\t\tand means for achieving these in Bali.
MALAYSIA said the Executive Board should ensure environmental integrity of all projects.
BOLIVIA, supported by COLOMBIA and the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, proposed maintaining temporary credits for forests that are intact and monitored.
AILAC said the CMA should endorse the global stocktake’s conclusions to generate momentum for raising ambition.
On business and industry, speakers highlighted 360 US businesses’ call to the current and incoming US administration to support the goals of the Paris Agreement, and called for, inter alia, financial disclosure, economic signals and long-term roadmaps.
The EUROPEAN UNION (EU) reiterated willingness to consider a second commitment period in line with its previously stated conditions, including an overall level of ambition sufficient to achieve the 2°C target.
AUSTRALIA asked that the Facilitator share his thoughts with parties before the next session on Tuesday.
BOLIVIA opposed reference to market tools and instruments.
Many countries, including INDIA, JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, ZIMBABWE, CANADA, NORWAY, the EU and MALAYSIA, supported the adoption of the Revised 1996 Guidelines for emission inventories.
Supported by SWITZERLAND and others, the EU stressed that it is not possible for Annex I countries to set targets without first knowing the rules.
The G-77/CHINA said MRV of finance from developed countries is missing in finance (Article 6), and INDIA urged inclusion of such MRV in transparency (Article 9).
Regarding web-based approaches to information sharing, the US expressed concern that the need to update a website might create a new type of reporting requirement.
AOSIS expressed concern that attributions might further complicate the text and suggested a column in the guiding table instead.
SWITZERLAND and the EU underscored the importance of training reviewers.
 JAPAN stressed its support for a nominal zero growth budget.
On "questions of implementation," the US, G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL and INDIA opposed JAPAN 92s proposal to limit this concept to the mandatory requirements of the guidelines under Articles 5.1 (national system) and 7.2 (supplementary information).
Samoa, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), said greenhouse gas concentrations must be stabilized well below 450 parts per million (ppm) and suggested the inclusion of new gases under the Protocol.
The G-77/CHINA, Costa Rica, for AILAC, and the EU said the GCF should be anchored into the agreement.
CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and ARGENTINA, said that most of \t\tthe proposed actions should be adopted by States and that the Argentine \t\tproposal could be included in the draft decision requesting SBSTA to \t\torganize an in-session workshop on these issues.
PERU referred to the Geneva Declaration and called for reduction target for the year 2005.
The UK, supported by the Russian Federation, suggested looking at models in other international organizations, and the need to differentiate between the various levels of IPCC members.
Barbados, for AOSIS, urged agreement on Annex I aggregate emission reductions of at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020.
The US indicated that the private sector would generate the majority of financing and noted US bilateral initiatives on financing adaptation.
The EU said the text should reflect that all parties will eventually take quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and SENEGAL, expressed concern over text requiring Parties to address a number of issues when analyzing environmental impacts.
NEW ZEALAND advocated text signaling that the work of the ADP will result in e2 80 9ca package of different components.
 headline statement, Germany, supported by Belgium, Sweden, the EU, and Luxembourg, called for reinserting a sentence from the FGD that warned of potential irreversible impacts in an “overshoot” (i.e., exceeding the temperature target and then returning to it) emissions pathway.
On regional distribution, SENEGAL requested specific reference to project activities in SIDS and African countries.
BRAZIL said proposals in option B are non-consequential amendments and therefore outside of the group’s mandate.
ARGENTINA argued for the consideration of regional consequences.
TUVALU intervened on a point of order, saying discussions should continue based on the suspended agenda on proposed Protocol amendments.
The EU highlighted the conclusions on how IPCC assessments can inform the global stocktake.
SAMOA, speaking for AOSIS, said that despite the adoption of the precautionary principle in 1992, Annex I countries are yet to act to address climate change.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tOn the “Convention track,” CHINA stressed existing commitments and \t\t\tsaw no added value in discussing the Russian proposal.
VENEZUELA requested to put on record her country’s objection to any reference to schedules, sectoral crediting or sectoral targets.
Elizabeth Dowdeswell suggested that the draft protocol submitted by AOSIS is a rational platform to address the changing atmosphere and asked the Parties to negotiate to the highest, rather than lowest, common denominator.
FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted that multi-project baselines would improve the efficiency of the CDM while stressing the need to maintain environmental integrity.
The US, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, proposed deleting the section on adjustments in accordance with Article 5.2 (adjustments), maintaining that reporting should be the responsibility of the review team, not the Party.
 c2 a0Parties then exchanged views on the special treatment and access modalities for LDCs and African countries, and the status of paragraphs on enabling environments, results-based payments, carbon pricing and variety of sources, among others.
The EU suggested reviewing and simplifying accounting rules, without creating perverse incentives, and enhancing removals from sustainable biomass for energy and HWP.
MALAYSIA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP emphasized the importance of technology, finance and capacity building.
Bhutan, for LDCs, supported by MEXICO, SUDAN, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Vanuatu, for AOSIS, identified priorities, including: the need for NAPs to be driven by country needs and priorities; natural transition from short-term to long-term adaptation; and a separate institutional set-up for LDCs.
In what many felt was an interesting development, the US expressed interest in including information on the Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) in documents to be prepared for Bangkok under the AWG-LCA – a proposal facing stiff opposition from some developing countries, who stress the need to avoid bringing any issues under the Protocol to the AWG-LCA.
The EU and AUSTRALIA underscored the need to exchange information and said that national communications are an appropriate means for information exchange by all parties.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU, said inventory estimates of a year during the commitment period that had been adjusted should not be revised and that consequently, adjustments of estimates of both the base year inventory and the inventory during the commitment period could not be revised.
On displaced emissions and national and/or sub-national approaches, the US, Colombia and others objected to text on exploring how sub-national approaches can be used in the development of national approaches, stating that this raises national approaches over sub-national ones.
ARGENTINA and others called for attention to the medical use of HFCs in metered dose inhalers.
For all this work and its contribution to “build up and disseminate greater knowledge about man-made climate change, and to lay the foundations that are needed to counteract such change,” the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice President Al Gore, in December 2007.
Highlighting the central role that adaptation plays for all developing countries and the need for balance, COLOMBIA supported the Chair’s proposal as a positive and pragmatic way forward.
FRANCE supported revisiting existing projects and programmes, and asked whether a further step could be taken in the progress, suggesting regional or sectoral workshops on revisiting.
The EU, G-77/China and Switzerland emphasized the need to design guidelines according to specific country needs.
With the US, she underlined the need for certainty and due process, and, with the Russian Federation, opposed the EU proposal for a powerful Chair.
PERU drew attention to early action to avoid a steep rise in adaptation costs.
JAPAN and the EU opposed this and suggested considering the issue jointly with the SBI item on Protocol Article 3.14.
The EU described it as an agreed level above which removals would be credited and below which they would be debited.
CHINA urged that cooperation between international organizations should take place under the COP assisted by the SBSTA.
The PHILIPPINES stated that QELROs should be legally binding.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, said it was not necessary to discuss what constitutes NAMAs.
Text referring to LDCs was bracketed and remained so until agreement on linkages was reached between LDCs and the CGE within the group discussing LDC issues.
AUSTRALIA, supported by \t\tthe UK, said that meeting the depth criteria alone should not be \t\tsufficient to establish ocean storage locations.
The US and the ARAB GROUP opposed inviting technical papers at this stage.
CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN emphasized \t\tparticipation by all major emitters and, with ARGENTINA, emphasized the \t\tneed to consider national circumstances.
COSTA RICA noted that the CDM has not been effective for them, and the EU said that it needs to be enhanced and made more efficient.
With BHUTAN, he underscored access to funds.
YOUTH NGOs stressed that 25 cents a day per Annex I country citizen would be sufficient and urged wealthy governments to give at least US$ 100 billion dollars per year to an accessible, democratically-run adaptation fund that is accountable to the UNFCCC.
NEW ZEALAND said a long-term goal is also being discussed in other international processes, and that such a goal should be non-binding, informed by science and periodically reviewed.
There \t\twere also some differences of opinion, though, with developing countries \t\trejecting EU suggestions to 93cluster 94 several agenda items.
CHINA proposed noting that “many delegations stressed that any budget proposal must be in line with the Convention provisions and the relevant COP decisions.” The US opposed the “Christmas tree” additions and suggested retaining the existing paragraph.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, requested, inter alia: recognizing linkages with the global stocktake; reflecting the notion that parties are able to choose the appropriate vehicle for communications; and clarifying the status of the annexed table.
The US stressed the need to focus on practical \t\topportunities and solutions.
CARICOM, the US, Singapore, the Cook Islands and Switzerland, opposed by El Salvador, called for INDCs to focus on mitigation.
CANADA, with the EU and G-77/CHINA, said governments must respond to the observation needs of the UNFCCC.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, looked forward to the in-session roundtable and the opportunity for submissions on mitigation and the transparency framework.
GHANA explained that its economic growth resulted in rising emissions from road transport, electricity generation, and biomass use and land-use change, mainly due to deforestation.
MEXICO, supported by the US and opposed by CHINA, proposed beginning work in a single contact group without adopting the agenda.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed that mitigation measures should contribute to economic diversification in developing countries, and expressed the need for measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) of support.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged progress on adaptation, finance, and transparency, including through addressing linkages with other items.
CHINA expressed frustration that his minister had been denied entry into the Conference venue and subsequently had his badge confiscated.
The US indicated that it had consistently advocated a comprehensive approach regarding the inclusion of a broad spectrum of GHGs within the scope of the protocol or legally binding instrument and, therefore, supported the proposal by the Chair to work on the basis of six GHGs, instead of three.
On monitoring and evaluation, Mexico, for AILAC and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested launching a party-driven process on metrics.
JAPAN highlighted the potential of sectoral approaches in achieving global emission reductions, and NEW ZEALAND supported analyzing other types of commitments in addition to quantified targets.
AUSTRALIA asked for work on anthropogenic emissions in the context of land use change and the forestry sector and noted similarities between harvested wood products, traded emissions and bunker fuels.
On next steps in the climate change process, Samoa, for AOSIS, said that once work on the BAPA is completed, Parties should review commitments under this regime, and suggested that they be stronger and more extensive.
The US queried the need for an executive board to manage the fund.
Clarifying its understanding of differentiation, AUSTRALIA, with the EU, noted that a genuine aggregate review should include all parties.
The EU encouraged synergies with activities outside the UNFCCC, and said that renewable energy and sustainable agricultural practices can contribute to adaptation efforts.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA highlighted the issue of additionality and questioned whether the Manual would be a compilation of COP/MOP and Executive Board decisions, or would include technical advice.
MEXICO expressed concern that some parties have not complied with their commitments for 2010 and called on countries to make voluntary contributions.
  Andrew Rakestraw (US) and Xiang Gao (China) co-facilitated.
SWITZERLAND proposed moving forward with the current format.
The UK, supported by Spain, proposed that focal points should be made aware of who is invited to facilitate the process of sending experts to meetings.
The US underlined that these mandates are clear.
BRAZIL agreed with the proposed working method and, supported by many, said the text on REDD-plus for Copenhagen should be concise, focusing on scope and principles.
China, Saudi \t\tArabia and Jamaica proposed removing this text, while the EU, Norway and \t\tSenegal wanted to retain it.
During SBI discussions, the G-77/CHINA proposed holding COP-6 in November 2000, while the US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, preferred early 2001.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of these paragraphs.
The EU and others called for a COP-4 decision on in-country expert reviews.
CANADA stressed the need to maximize financial flows globally, noting discussions on contributions and actions should precede those on scale and sources.
SOUTH AFRICA supported an ambition mechanism to act only on the TEMs outcomes.
SWITZERLAND reminded that, in Lima, parties agreed to allow submissions of INDCs with different timeframes.
On  , Brazil, for the G-77/China, with Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and India, supported deleting the sub-section on national schedules, explaining that it contains ideas not pertinent to sub-paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
INDIA noted the need to look beyond IPCC good practice guidance on LULUCF.
EGYPT called for long-term sustainability.
EGYPT supported national or regional research centers.
On encouraging the development of standardized, multi-project baselines under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), the EU highlighted the benefits of multi-project baselines, in terms of transparency, reduced transaction costs and the possibility of improving environmental integrity.
The EU supported adding new gases, especially ones with GWPs listed in AR4.
On paragraph 5 (recommending the COP President to consider options for bringing together the outcomes of the work under various bodies), Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested deleting the reference to the objective of illustrating the progress made, saying it is duplicative.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, supported a role for the FCCC Secretariat.
Saudi Arabia and AOSIS opposed nuclear projects under CDM.
The G-77/CHINA requested reference to enhancing the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms under Protocol Article 2 (P&amp;Ms) in its entirety, while CANADA, the US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA urged limiting reference to Article 2.1(b) (Cooperation on P&amp;Ms).
Germany, with Ireland, Norway, and the US, urged coherence across all chapters and clear communication of complex scientific concepts from the report’s outset.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, expressed concern over slow progress, and called for a clear mandate from this COP to co-chairs and co-facilitators that will allow parties to move to substantive and technical discussions at SB 48.
The EU suggested the Secretariat prepare a technical paper with structured and quantified options on complementary initiatives.
The G-77/ CHINA volunteered to draft a concise paragraph summing up the issues related to needs assessment.
With ECUADOR, FINLAND, the CARICOM States, THE GAMBIA, VENEZUELA, CHINA, ECUADOR, BENIN, TANZANIA and UGANDA, he highlighted the need for additional financial support, sustained transfer of information and technology, capacity building and institutional strengthening.
Proposing the adoption of the ADP agenda based on what was agreed to in Durban, Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a detailed schedule of work with timetables and milestones for making progress on all items in a balanced manner.
Germany, France, Saint Lucia, the UK, Norway and the US indicated this proposal would require careful consideration, highlighting that the development of SRs rests with the WGs.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, requested that \t\ttheir proposal be used as the basis of negotiations.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and IRAN called for recognizing that adaptation is country-specific.
CANADA stressed capacity building and INDONESIA \t\t\tconcrete and prompt action, and positive incentives.
The US identified the need to consider the spectrum of countries’ national circumstances and said the registry approach should be considered for both developed and developing countries, while Brazil said developed countries must take on commitments and stressed the need to consider comparability of their efforts.
On information to be provided in INDCs, the EU suggested strengthening information requirements, including on: Land Use, Land Use Changes and Forestry; market mechanisms; and methodologies for calculating business as usual baselines.
On HFCs, the EU, supported by COSTA RICA, expressed interest in exploring linkages between the UNFCCC and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
The UK and Norway, opposed by Canada, supported a section on geoengineering in the SYR, with Norway highlighting the need to discuss the merits and risk of different geoengineering options.
While some parts of this proposal are more elaborate than others, the US assured delegates in Bangkok: “We recognize our historical responsibility and, in our proposals, actions by developed and developing countries would still be differentiated.”
TUVALU called for clarity on the purpose of the text on shared vision and said a Cancun outcome must make explicit reference to a mandate to reach a legally-binding agreement.
 \t\t\tOn information instruments, WGIII agreed on a proposal by the UK to \t\t\tremove language indicating that information instruments can improve \t\t\tthe effectiveness of other policies.
BANGLADESH called for, inter alia, financing on a grant basis, not through concessionary loans, and action at the community level.
 BULGARIA: Yontcho Pelovski, Deputy Minister of the Environment, described national measures to reduce GHG emissions.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, suggested working towards agreement on outstanding issues and, where no agreement is reached, to consider transferring issues to other Convention bodies  .
Supported by COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, ARGENTINA and IRAN, COLOMBIA opposed ignoring sinks, noting that they are also biodiversity deposits.
On the issue of loss of mechanisms 92 eligibility in the draft Article 7 COP/MOP-1 decision, Parties considered an EU package proposal on thresholds that, inter alia, involves loss of eligibility following failure to submit an annual inventory or to include an estimate for a source category of seven percent or more.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that any support coming from developing country parties should not interfere with the nature, scope or substance of developing parties’ INDCs.
On the decision that future work should take place through initiatives involving all Parties and should include the exchange of information on P&amp;Ms, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by CANADA, emphasized that the information should relate to the P&amp;Ms of Annex I Parties.
Mexico suggested entrusting the Adaptation Committee and the LDC Expert Group (LEG) with the technical work on adaptation.
On aggregation-degradation, AUSTRALIA said the issue was not a priority, and said he could support a process decision at COP-6.
The US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and AILAC supported a facilitative compliance mechanism, applicable to all.
The US recalled a recent OPEC study indicating that joint action by OPEC members alone could be sufficient to counteract any possible impact of response measures on revenue flows.
CHINA and INDIA requested that the sources of the proposals be noted in the compilation.
Venezuela, for ALBA, identified difficulties with working on the basis of the AWG-LCA’s text, saying its development has been disproportionate and unbalanced.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted that the text should reflect the importance of creating a fund to support these activities.
AOSIS highlighted supported planning processes for LDCs and SIDS as the driver for funding and underscored improving the MRV process on additionality of funding.
Saying that the Durban Forum on Capacity-building is an appropriate space for discussing capacity building, the EU opposed establishing a new structure or mechanism.
Norway, with the EU, called for commitments from all parties, and pricing carbon.
The US requested parties to clarify the issues in this section that are not being discussed elsewhere.
  Andrew Rakestraw (US) co-facilitated.
MEXICO called for resources for adaptation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the different pace should be recognized but not raise concerns.
MALAYSIA called for the incorporation of technology transfer and the financial mechanism into the Protocol mechanisms.
AOSIS noted the inadequacy of the commitments and efforts to implement them under the Protocol and the FCCC.
Christopher West, UK, described nested adaptation in the UK and integration across administrative levels, the evolution of adaptation in the UK and the role of the UK Climate Impacts Programme.
 SWITZERLAND: Ruth Dreifuss, Federal Councillor and Head, Federal Department of the Interior, recommended that the COP endorse the SAR and invited countries whose economic development is sufficient to join the OECD to voluntarily fulfill Annex I responsibilities.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted that UNFCCC \t\tArticle 12.5 (frequency of submission) mandates the COP to decide on the \t\tfrequency of subsequent communications of all Parties.
LEVELS OF EMISSIONS FOR THE BASE \t\tYEAR OF CROATIA:
The EU underscored that the focus should be on the most vulnerable developing countries and opposed language on impacts of response measures and historical emissions.
Responding to questions on carbon capture and storage (CCS), the NETHERLANDS reported that all of its new power plants will be CCS-ready, but planned pilot projects have been delayed and CCS does not currently contribute to emission reductions.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported by the EU, suggested reference to Paragraph 11(a) of the draft text (communication of INDCs e2 80 99 mitigation component).
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA, MALAYSIA and INDIA supported differentiation in the section, with CHINA calling for a compliance arrangement for developed countries and facilitative implementation for developing countries.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION expressed dissatisfaction with the “exceedingly rosy picture” painted by co-facilitators and sought clarification on next steps.
Maldives, for SIDS, proposed, inter alia, that proceeds from the use of market mechanisms will be used for meeting the costs of adaptation in the most vulnerable developing countries.
On the way forward, the EU indicated that a stand-alone debate on equity would not be productive and called for focusing on mitigation and adaptation.
SOUTH AFRICA called for a differentiated approach to compliance, including a system that is “preventative and cooperative.” c2 a0 BOLIVIA suggested the establishment of an international climate justice tribunal.
The IPCC will convene three workshops for the further development of the Guidelines for National GHG Inventories on the following topics: sources and removal by sinks of greenhouse gases from land use and forestry (Sao Jos ef bf bd dos Campos, Sao Paulo, 21-22 March 1996); emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes (Abingdon, UK, 29-30 March 1996); and methane emissions from rice cultivation (Bangkok, Thailand, 30 April -2 May 1996).
Following an EU objection, the option for no allocation will be “considered”.
 The EU proposal includes a general commitment for Parties listed in “Annex X,” which would consist of OECD members and countries with economies in transition.
NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, conveyed the Group 92s condolences.
AUSTRALIA: highlighted the need to prioritize issues in the work programme; proposed undertaking case studies to create a technical paper; suggested that the LEG focus on updating NAPAs and incorporating them into development planning; and encouraged collaboration with other expert bodies.
The \t\t\tLead Authors, the UK, Germany, Italy, Chile, Norway and others \t\t\tstressed the underlying science and the importance of conveying the \t\t\tinformation on documented impacts to policy-makers.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the central importance of funding from public sources that is additional, adequate, predictable and sustainable.
MEXICO observed that although a gap may not legally impede the mechanisms, economic considerations might.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized his proposal for a Virtual World Research Center to coordinate R&amp;D, building on New Zealand’s Lifestock Emissions and Abatement Research Network.
CANADA said any agreement must be global in scope and application, balance environmental protection and economic prosperity, and be guided by a long-term goal.
A text submitted by the G-77/CHINA, setting out six reasons for rejecting the budget concept, had been suppressed and did not appear in the Chair’s revised negotiating text.
The EU said that work on methodologies should ensure the integrity of inventories.
The EU distinguished GEF review from future guidance; and, with SWITZERLAND, CANADA and VENEZUELA, proposed making it the permanent FCCC financing mechanism, subject to future reviews.
 SAMOA recalled the AOSIS Protocol, which was supported by over 70 Parties at COP-1, and said that the AGBM should consider how the elements (a)-(f) of the BM might feature in a protocol.
KENYA, for \t\tthe Africa Group, stressed the need for progress in the implementation \t\tof decision 5/CP.7.
The EU also recommended comparing pledges to theoretical numbers, such as targets identified by the IPCC and other institutions, allowing parties to see where their ambition is now and where it could be.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, objected to the omission of their proposals on share of proceeds and regional distribution from the new draft text.
BANGLADESH said funding criteria should be developed, such as a “vulnerability index.” Informal consultations will continue on Saturday.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the GCF is a crucial element of the solution.
The US \t\t\tquestioned why a non-peer reviewed study should be included, while \t\t\tUK, France, Germany, the European Community (EC) and others stressed \t\t\tthat the high-profile Stern Review had already been presented at \t\t\tUNFCCC COP12, and ignoring it would seem 93weird.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized the need to improve the resilience of countries that rely on fossil fuels.
One trigger was a statement by the EU in the AWG-KP’s opening plenary that it prefers a single legal agreement as an outcome from Copenhagen.
The EU explained that reporting by developing countries should be more frequent and based on international guidance, and that verification should take place internationally, building on existing experience.
The US cautioned that the supporting scientific \t\tliterature consists of only one report that should not be generalized.
Opposing this proposal, the G-77/CHINA suggested referring to text in a draft COP/MOP decision contained in decision 11/CP.7 (LULUCF) on changes in stocks from natural effects.
The US stressed the importance of accounting methods, especially under the UNFCCC Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities, and, with JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, requested indication of those activities directly related to the Protocol.
Norway, supported by France, the UK, Canada, Switzerland, and China, urged delegates to protect the integrity of the IPCC and use its Principles and Procedures covering a situation of no consensus.
URUGUAY said that it was inappropriate to consider IGO participation in the panels at this stage.
The SBI also emphasizes that SCCF activities should be complementary to the LDC Fund and the climate change focal areas of the GEF, and requests SBI-19 to provide further guidance to the GEF for the operation of the SCCF and to recommend a draft decision at COP-9 in this regard.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted: the need to promote national actions and co-benefits, and define a spectrum of commitments.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress in adopting conclusions on the scale of Annex I emission reduction targets.
Answering questions on the attribution of emission reductions, GREECE said national emissions have fallen due to the economic recession but noted an expected total mitigation effect of 40 Mt of CO2 equivalent in 2020 from policies and measures, including decommissioning inefficient thermal power plants and raising the share of renewables.
The EU noted its concern that the process is not advancing as intended.
On the issue of risk management, the EU emphasized strengthening resilience, improving preparedness, enhancing the role of the private sector, and creating an enabling environment.
UKRAINE highlighted legislation facilitating implementation of JI projects in Ukraine and stressed that attracting foreign carbon investment is a priority for the Ukrainian government.
AOSIS and Tuvalu opposed discussing impacts of response measures under adaptation, stressing the issue is addressed under mitigation.
CANADA expressed confidence that these concerns can be met and, with JAPAN, stressed inclusion of Article 3.4 activities in the first commitment period as a condition for ratification of the Protocol.
The UK expressed concern with the attempt to bring in mitigation under WG II and called for a more open-ended approach – possibly with one part on regional aspects of adaptation under WG II and another on mitigation under WG III.
MALAWI introduced a new proposal containing guidelines for preparing NAPAs, which delegates then examined.
On paragraph 7, the EU, opposed by South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed replacing reference to “the assessment of consequences of tools, policies, measures and methodologies available to Annex I Parties” with “the assessment of consequences of mitigation actions taken by Parties.” Both options remain in the text.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by CHILE, suggested that responsibility for non-permanence be taken by host-country governments, and noted that accounting for timing of emissions from harvested wood products may reduce non-permanence risks and make CDM LULUCF projects more attractive.
The EU called for creation of a forum for consultations or a “help desk” rather than a place where governments stand accused of breaching their commitments.
CHILE emphasized that the fulfillment of any additional commitments by the developing world depends on Annex I countries abiding by their commitments.
The NETHERLANDS, with MEXICO, noted the need for overlap between the Working Group and Synthesis Report writing processes to allow re-examination by Working Groups of any inconsistencies identified by the Synthesis Report process.
India, for BASIC stressed that work under the ADP must be informed by the IPCC, the 2013-15 Review and the subsidiary bodies, and urged meaningful operationalization of the GCF, Technology Mechanism and Adaptation Committee.
The EU highlighted the need to focus on the consistency of rules for new mechanisms, while New Zealand called on parties to resolve tensions between a “deep and fluid” carbon market and the use of markets to rectify other problems.
SBSTA contact groups \t\tand informal meetings took place \t\t \t\t \t\ton technology transfer, mitigation, adaptation, SIDS, emissions from \t\taviation and maritime transport, and the IPCC report on safeguarding the \t\tozone layer and global climate system.
SLOVENIA stressed the importance of appropriate technology.
e2 80 9d The US preferred retaining e2 80 9ccommitments/contributions/action.
IRELAND noted a sharp decline in GDP per capita emissions since 2001 and stressed that 45% of its non-ETS emissions come from the already efficient agricultural sector, which presents a significant challenge.
ARGENTINA supported the option for conference services that allows for contracting translation services from a UN source and interpretation and other sources from commercial contractors.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND opposed a e2 80 9cbifurcated e2 80 9d approach.
IPCC Chair Lee noted consensus on the draft decision, with amendments made by the US, and asked the TGICA Co-Chairs and delegates to meet informally to discuss the composition of the task force.
GUATEMALA said that reaching an outcome in Doha will not be possible if a decision on finance is not part of the package.
In the evening, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed that: the Secretariat provide a compilation text by 9:00am Thursday, 3 December; the contact group discuss which informal groups must continue and where no further progress is likely; and the contact group consider cross-cutting issues.
BRAZIL, with CHINA and THAILAND, strongly objected to reference to the CDM and the continued attempts to link technology transfer under the UNFCCC to the Protocol.
The US noted recent economic circumstances and countries’ evolving capabilities to contribute to emission reductions.
The EU wanted to add a reference to Article 4.1.
The EU noted general agreement in party submissions on three sets of guidelines to be defined, for: reporting; technical expert review; and multilateral consideration.
Barbados, for AOSIS, expressed willingness to consider more frequent communication of issues, such as GHG inventories, while calling for ensuring the provision of enhanced support.
Sweden, with the US, noted the need to take steps to mobilize resources alongside a careful management of costs.
Switzerland, for the Environment Integrity Group (EIG), called for focusing on implementation of the Cancun Agreements and ensuring, inter alia, that there is no gap between commitment periods.
PANAMA \t\thighlighted a GEF regional adaptation project being implemented in \t\tCentral America, Mexico and Cuba, which aims to assess current \t\tvulnerability to climate hazards through a process involving all \t\tstakeholders.
The EU preferred prioritizing the LULUCF training module, if resources are limited.
GRENADA noted that appeals could be made on technical grounds and proposed either listing an extensive skillset or only mentioning that members should have “ten years of relevant experience.” AUSTRALIA stressed the link between functions of the appeals body and the skillset required of its members.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said a clear mechanism must be established for the use of scientific information, and noted that SBSTA should not be selective when presenting information.
TUVALU, supported by COLOMBIA, noted the need to consider how LULUCF fits into the proposed new protocols, while the EU, CANADA and AUSTRALIA expressed concern with discussions of legal issues in this group.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA underscored the need for: a holistic approach to strengthen both domestic actions and international cooperation; and a balance between mitigation and adaptation.
The EU said that further guidance on standards and procedures is necessary.
Impact of single projects on emissions: On Tuesday, 3 November, ICELAND submitted a draft decision that provides for process emissions from a single project, coming into operation after 1990 and contributing more than 5%, in the first commitment period, to the total greenhouse gas emissions of an Annex B Party, to be reported separately and not be included in the national total.
In response to a question by the US on the allocation of the issue of sinks under the CDM, President Pronk said he would consult with the co-facilitators of both groups and then issue a ruling.
 In informal consultations, Co-Facilitators Hugh Sealy (Maldives) and Kelley Kizzier (EU) invited parties’ additional inputs to the Article 6 co-chairs’ informal note issued on Tuesday, 6 November, starting with the headings, and followed by elements and sub-elements.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS sought clarification from the IPCC regarding how regional implications will be covered in the Third Assessment Report (TAR).
The US proposed a workshop addressing technology options, availability and costs.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that many countries were not ready for discussion on elements or defining the programme of work.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called attention to their proposed agenda (FCCC/AWGLCA/2011/CRP.1).
And, as before, US domestic politics created uncertainty on the ability of a treaty still in its infancy to achieve these necessary goals.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, stressed that MRV in developing countries takes place in accordance with national standards.
Supported by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN explained that the different years should not be viewed as base years, but as reference years, and that their inclusion was useful for the sake of comparability and clarity.
Iran, for the LMDCs, Peru, for AILAC, and Argentina, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, expressed support for the APA Co-Chairs.
On a proposal for a data interface, AUSTRALIA suggested initiating a pilot phase.
Chile, for AILAC, among others, supported the principle of “no backsliding.” Norway said elements on accounting and periodicity should be part of the mitigation section.
On the sub-item dealing with the consideration of the fifth compilation and synthesis of initial national communications, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, objected to a document tabled by the Secretariat on steps taken by non-Annex I Parties to reduce emissions.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, supported by INDIA, called for ensuring that a share of proceeds from the flexibility mechanisms is used for adaptation.
The PHILIPPINES requested clarity on the mandate contained in “preparatory work.”
MAURITIUS called for identification of common issues relating to vulnerability and adaptation contained in SIDS 92 national communications that could be used in developing adaptation strategies.
Under Identification and Classification of Problems by Expert Review Teams (ERTs), the US, opposed by the EU, proposed moving the section on classification, stressing that ERT 92s should identify rather than classify problems.
PERU proposed including a section on accounting for the flexibility mechanisms, limiting the amounts that can be added to, or subtracted from, the Assigned Amounts of a party through the flexibility mechanisms.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, reaffirmed future work should be balanced and underlined that the guiding questions for submissions do not limit the ability of parties to submit views on other issues.
The EU said capacity building should take account of different developing countries’ needs and encouraged south-south and triangular approaches.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY proposed integrating biennial reports and IAR into existing reporting to avoid duplication.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Kenya emphasized differentiation of information, especially for the most vulnerable.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, with PERU, said too much emphasis was being placed on the needs assessment while losing focus on implementing technology transfer.
SAUDI ARABIA said Parties had agreed that decisions on Protocol and UNFCCC issues would be kept separate.
CHINA said the Asian Group had selected Thailand and Saudi Arabia to provide its representatives, so he could not accept the invitation.
CHINA highlighted three priorities for consideration, namely: institutional arrangements and the importance of promoting action under the UNFCCC; a funding mechanism; and an international action plan for addressing joint R&amp;D, IPR issues and innovation centers.
AUSTRALIA noted potential for linkages with REDD and, with NORWAY, underlined the need to include CCS.
On taking stock of progress, South Africa, supported by China and Tuvalu, and opposed by the US, proposed consideration of modalities for biennial communications of indicative support.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, emphasized that parties had agreed on a two-track, party-driven, transparent negotiating process and were not ready to “rubber stamp text coming out of the blue.” Ecuador drew attention to “serious procedural problems,” highlighting lack of transparency and inclusiveness.
NORWAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, added brackets around “since 1990” in Option C, as in Options A and B. GRENADA queried how to measure 1990 sinks now if not already done and suggested giving a negative credit to countries when sinks are destroyed.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and JAPAN reformulated the paragraph, and parties agreed to reflect that recommendations presented by the JISC will present options to address concerns raised by stakeholders and for validation by an accredited independent entity of post-registration changes.
GUYANA, PARAGUAY and PAPUA NEW GUINEA underscored the need to address permanence and leakage, with AUSTRALIA noting that environmental safeguards should be worked into the operational language.
The EU bracketed a paragraph regarding requests to the Secretariat.
In the contact group on  , paragraphs 24-36 of the revised draft decision text, BRAZIL proposed inserting a new paragraph e2 80 9crecognizing the social and economic value of voluntary emission reduction activities and the need to consider them as units of convertible financial value, e2 80 9d in the context of paragraph 4 of Decision 1/CP.19 (enhancing pre-2020 ambition).
On paragraphs 83 on cooperating in the implementation of the agreement, c2 a0 and 84 on a common transparency framework, the EU, opposed by BOLIVIA, speaking on their own behalf, proposed moving both under commitments/contributions/actions.
COSTA RICA supported allocating some time for this discussion to help crystallize the work in other sub-groups and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said a specific slot on mitigation actions by all countries could help to better understand intentions and aspirations of parties.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for bold action and a strong legally-binding outcome that provides clarity on rules for the flexibility mechanisms and for land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF).
ENGOs agreed that the process should \t\tbe concluded by 2008, supported including LULUCF and bunker fuels, and \t\tsaid the process should not be tied to the electoral cycle of the US.
BARBADOS noted that, \t\talthough the GEF is mandated to approve projects on an expedited basis, \t\tthere is no forum to address problems with this process.
The US thought this was the SBI"s responsibility.
SOUTH AFRICA warned against over-consolidating the section on support, and INDIA said that central ideas that protect economic growth in developing countries should be retained in the text.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by CHINA, recommended deleting the option of “implementing agreement” from the title of the draft agreement.
On the preamble, SAUDI ARABIA suggested separating it between two decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and Article 4.9, the other on Protocol Article 3.14.
Noting negative impacts of response measures, SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the role of insurance in commodity hedging.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BOLIVIA and CHINA, stated that discussions should first focus on principles.
AUSTRALIA said Article 3.1 and the use of mechanisms, should be at the core of the compliance system and dealt with by the same body.
Parties agreed to create a spin-off group co-facilitated by Sandea De Wet (South Africa) and Jürgen Lefevere (EU) to discuss, inter alia, QELROs for the second commitment period, carry-over of AAUs, and proposed Protocol amendments, including the length of the second commitment period.
The UK \t\tnoted the lack of readily available methodologies to assess adaptation \t\tmeasures, while Jamaica noted that measures could be gauged by their \t\teffectiveness.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the AOSIS draft protocol addresses gases other than CO2, calling for targets and timetables at the first meeting of protocol Parties.
The US said the system should enable verification of efforts, which could include tiers and opt-out provisions based on parties e2 80 99 circumstances.
Recognizing a need for additional finance, JAPAN stressed the use of existing financing mechanisms and organizations.
The EU, CANADA, CHINA, JAPAN, IRAN, SOUTH AFRICA and the US opposed a triggering role for the Secretariat.
NORWAY called for further consultations.
The US stated that the agreement should evolve over time to promote progressively more ambitious action.
CHINA and AUSTRALIA called for a focus on practical steps, and AUSTRALIA, with NORWAY, proposed convening round-tables at SBSTA-20.
The EU, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, added that if the information on the initial AA is put in the registries by the Secretariat, instead of by the Parties, there is no need for such a review.
The EU said more progress could have been made in Bonn, and stressed the need to further consolidate and to concentrate on substantive and political issues.
On output, GRENADA and Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, stressed the need for the global stocktake to conclude in 2023 to allow parties to take stock of its output in preparing their NDCs.
ARGENTINA noted that some Parties hold unrealistic expectations about the CDM.
SWITZERLAND said all parties should develop NAPs and report on national strategies and plans.
TURKEY preferred a 10-year period with a mid-term review.
The EU proposed that an agreement address, inter alia, principles and objectives of a new mechanism and how to set reference levels, and said rules and modalities can be developed later.
VENEZUELA cautioned that AIJ and JI were distinct concepts and that JI should only be considered with respect to other Annex I countries.
During \t\tcontact group discussions in the afternoon and evening, co-chaired by \t\tDavid Warrilow (UK) and Richard Odingo (Kenya), delegates discussed \t\tre-election procedures and a rule on cases where a member of the IPCC or \t\tTask Force Bureau resigns or is unable to complete the assigned term of \t\toffice.
The EU and Switzerland advocated an additional sentence on improving mutual understanding and learning.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, highlighted the importance of a second commitment period that is ambitious in terms of emission reductions and that begins on 1 January 2013.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said stricter adherence to existing reporting guidelines, rather than full-scale revision, may be needed.
Describing offsetting as “a good deal for the atmosphere,” the EU, with NORWAY, proposed a technical workshop to quantify the impact of the different mechanisms.
AOSIS suggested the G-77/China be given e2 80 9ca bit more time e2 80 9d to find agreement.
Highlighting the large number of parties that have associated themselves with the Copenhagen Accord, the US suggested accepting both the Russian Federation and the G-77/China proposals.
CANADA proposed launching technical work in Marrakech.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stated the group’s expectations for a party-driven and inclusive process.
A number of delegates agreed to work on the basis of the Co-Chairs 92 proposals, while SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and the UAE said these drafts did not reflect their concerns and sought to proceed on the basis of an earlier version.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, explained that their proposal for funding sources in the form of assessed contributions from developed countries was based on the experiences of the Group.
MEXICO suggested regional adaptation communications and reports could be a possibility.
The US stressed the necessity of ascertaining the connection between the provision of finance and actions, including what finance is being provided for.
JAMAICA noted that CCS technology is not ready for use in an offset mechanism such as the CDM.
The EU stressed its commitment to safeguarding the Kyoto Protocol’s key elements.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA recommended flexibility in a post-2020 agreement, with incentives for developing-country participation, which should take into account national circumstances, such as population growth rate and density, energy mix, renewable energy endowment, and the extent of coastline.
Supported by AUSTRALIA, he opposed the loss of access to mechanisms as a result of a failure to meet the obligations under Article 3.1.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested using agreed language, for example from Cancun, and including references to, inter alia, sustainable development and developing countries e2 80 99 vulnerabilities.
NORWAY noted main areas of divergence related to, inter alia, how to stimulate action, incentives and support from developed to developing countries.
AOSIS said work under workstream 2 should continue until the mitigation gap is closed.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the adoption of a decision on a second commitment period from 2013-2017 at COP 17, and for the establishment, in Bangkok, of a group to address the legal issues raised by the impending end of the first commitment period, and to consider options to create continuity with a second commitment period.
Adverse Effects: The G-77/CHINA, NEPAL and others said developing countries are the most affected by climate change, and Annex I countries must implement their commitments relating to provision of financial resources and technology transfer.
JAPAN highlighted cooperation between the public and private sectors.
The EU, opposed by CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, preferred the branches to have different expertise corresponding to their functions.
SOUTH AFRICA recalled the COP Presidency’s undertaking to ensure a party-driven process.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, suggested identifying and assessing vulnerabilities across industries, such as tourism, shipping, air travel and cruise ships.
TUVALU, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the Protocol’s importance now and in the future and elaborated on its two proposals to amend the Protocol.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by MARSHALL ISLANDS and SAUDI ARABIA, said that disasters were dependent on the impact of weather events on human beings, and could therefore be prevented.
The Note also proposed increasing resources through other channels, with the aim of reaching an annual level of US$1 billion by 2005.
On Article 6, MALAYSIA and CHINA stressed the importance of a concrete implementation work programme.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION favored an ad hoc group of experts to expedite work on SBI documents.
Stressing the importance of universality, BARBADOS said this should not imply a “race to the bottom” in terms of legal form or rules, and called for a careful balance between designing a climate-effective agreement that is fair, and that enjoys the confidence of all parties.
BRAZIL urged concrete measures and adequate technologies.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to address ambition on adaptation, including through pledges by parties, a registry and a workshop to discuss these matters.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested that parties focus discussions on how to undertake the consolidation of response measures issues.
 \t\t \t\tInsiders are discussing the potential impact of the US mid-term \t\telections both in Washington and here in Nairobi.
The AOSIS proposal on a comprehensive approach to GHGs is consistent with BM language.
On funding for the assessment, CANADA and the US preferred not specifying Annex II countries, stating that numerous sources of funding may be involved.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need to respect the Paris Agreement and urged parties to find landing zones.
VENEZUELA, with CHINA, stated that market approaches play a limited role in the Protocol and are not mentioned in the Convention, suggesting their inclusion poses a legal problem.
  The EU and NORWAY requested, and parties agreed, to remove reference to economic diversification as no economic diversification activities had been undertaken.
The EU emphasized that the second commitment period is only one part of the “Durban package,” supported an eight-year second commitment period, and proposed a review in 2015 of the level of ambition of parties’ commitments, in line with the review process under the AWG-LCA.
Sudan, for LDCs, said public funding must be the major source for REDD+ implementation, and highlighted the need to: address REDD+ under a socioeconomic development context; and adequately consider non-carbon benefits and national implementation risks.
FRIENDS OF THE EARTH described the US pledge and review system as unacceptable and called for: scaling-up of finance and technology transfer; agreement on a global feed-in tariff; energy efficiency; and dirty energy subsidies.
A contact group, held with the SBI, co-chaired by Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) considered this issue throughout the week.
The LDCs, proposed e2 80 9cnoting, as appropriate, the requirements of Article 17. e2 80 9d The LMDCs suggested that focusing on Article 17 could e2 80 9calign us with a position we should not take at this stage, e2 80 9d and, with the US, proposed e2 80 9cnoting any relevant timing requirements.
ECUADOR noted that text on REDD+ falls short of reflecting an ambitious outcome, especially regarding how to finance REDD+ efforts, while TURKEY highlighted that every party must “shoulder its share” of responsibility for combating climate change.
SWITZERLAND underscored that environmental integrity is the overarching principle of the LULUCF process.
CHINA and JAPAN agreed to discuss this issue informally, in order to reach resolution before the SBSTA plenary on Thursday, 12 June.
Brice Lalonde, EU, stressed consistency, simplicity, and encouragement of early action and suggested consideration of conservation and enhancement of forest stocks.
On using existing \t\tclimate funds in the future regime, he told SUDAN that the funds could \t\tbe integrated into new legal structures.
SOUTH AFRICA called for further work to understand the operational aspects of the Convention’s principles.
The EU sought clarification on whether issues mentioned yesterday would be reflected in the proposed work programme.
Switzerland, for the EIG, agreed on the need to move toward a negotiation text, but highlighted the importance of roundtables for conceptual discussions and the need for concrete proposals that reflect and operationalize the Convention principles.
CHINA stressed that if the rules are changed, the 25-40% indicative range of Annex I emission reductions must be increased.
ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA, IRAN, Belize, for AOSIS, and SENEGAL called for establishing a link between the technology section and MOI.
The EU said industrialized countries must take the lead on climate change through ambitious domestic action and encouraged developing countries to deliver NAMAs through, inter alia, the multiple institutions set up in Cancun and Durban.
The EU and Canada suggested this section applies to both Annex I parties and other countries wishing to take binding QELROs.
JAPAN said there were no provisions requiring financial additionality and none that preclude the use of ODA as a source of funding.
e2 80 9d The EU preferred regular e2 80 9cupdating e2 80 9d rather than e2 80 9cupscaling.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the building blocks: obligations and commitments; scale of resources; sources; and MRV.
SAMOA suggested developing an insurance pool scheme made up of contributions from developed countries.
Stephen Ogle, Colorado State University, US, presented on regional capacity building projects in Central America and Southeast Asia related to agriculture and land use inventory programmes, and elaborated on the Agriculture and Land Use Software Approach (ALU), a greenhouse gas inventory software programme.
SAUDI ARABIA pointed to “huge differences” between parties, stressing that these issues should be addressed through the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organization (IMO).
JAPAN highlighted the importance of capacity building and cautioned against the proliferation of bodies under the Convention.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, highlighted the issue’s importance for the Group and noted it should be part of a future agreement, reflecting the Convention’s principles and provisions.
The INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, TRADE UNION ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE OECD and EUROPEAN CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS highlighted the potential for job creation resulting from climate change measures and called for employment transition programmes.
While the G-77/China stressed the importance of \t\tmonitoring and defining its objectives, the US highlighted the need to \t\tavoid monitoring requirements that hinder implementation, Japan called \t\tfor streamlining, and the EU highlighted the role of national \t\tcommunications and the comprehensive review of the capacity building \t\tframework.
ALBA expressed interest in exploring options such as a ministerial session at Bonn to deal with outstanding issues.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted concerns relating to, inter alia: publication of potential non-compliance, initiation by the facilitation branch of the enforcement procedure; and the calculation of excess tonnes to be deducted from a Party 92s assigned amount.
BRAZIL noted the value of the third option as a basis for compromise.
JAPAN, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the relevance of these issues to all parties, said both negative and positive implications should be considered, and highlighted co-benefits.
CANADA suggested an additional reference to Protocol Article 5.1 (national systems).
The AFRICAN GROUP, AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA called for a coherent financial architecture under the COP.
In addition, CHINA deleted reference to an instruction that a document reflecting the status of discussions on the non-inventory part of the guidelines be produced "in English only."
On mitigation, \t\the underlined a substantial economic potential for mitigation, including \t\toptions for the building sector, and noted that investments in the \t\tenergy sector up to 2030, which are expected to exceed US$30 trillion, \t\twill largely determine future emissions.
The EU said the CDI should provide the basis for a framework on capacity building, along with national communications.
The AFRICAN GROUP stressed that the use of flexible mechanisms be limited to an agreed amount since the primary objective of the FCCC was to encourage domestic action.
URUGUAY noted the need to separate uncertainty from risk.
The workshop is sponsored by the US Country Studies Program (USCSP), the Comisi ef bf bdn Nacional sobre el Cambio Global and the Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research (invited).
JAPAN preferred an ad hoc group to address issues as identified by the SBI.
Supported by NORWAY, he noted the need for a methodology for consistent emissions allocation.
 AOSIS: Tuiloma Neroni Slade, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Western Samoa to the United Nations, said GHG reductions are technically possible and economically feasible.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA and VENEZUELA, proposed that "Parties" rather than "Chairmen" agree on NGO participation in informal contact groups.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the TAPs should start work as soon as possible and supported the US proposal on different composition for the TAPs and that one of the Co-Chairs be from an Annex I Party.
CHINA said the proposal highlights the "real" relative responsibility of Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
AOSIS underlined that the triggers should be sensitive to different contexts.
The US preferred only having e2 80 9cestablishment of commitments/contributions/actions.
Parties discussed whether to qualify how many non-Annex I Parties have submitted projects for funding, with the G-77/CHINA suggesting removing reference to "many" non-Annex I Parties.
CHINA, INDIA and BRAZIL said all diffeent ways of referencing e2 80 9call parties e2 80 9d could be reflected in one option using brackets.
The US and MEXICO emphasized that the table did not intend to give a full picture of parties’ views but rather to facilitate their understanding of certain proposals.
ARGENTINA highlighted positive experiences with the fund under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern about due process if the COP/MOP was given both these functions.
On consequences of non-compliance, the G-77/CHINA expressed interest in the EU proposal on financial penalties linked to a compliance fund.
BRAZIL and CHINA expressed concern about gaps in pre-2020 support.
KUWAIT said the proposal for a Bonn Declaration was premature.
INDIA and CHINA opposed, calling instead for a reference only to developed countries and those listed in Annex II of the Convention.
BRAZIL and CHINA proposed, and the US agreed, to indicate that the seventh national communication should be submitted “no later than four years” after 2014.
On Friday, 1 November, the SBI adopted the decisions on the LDC Fund, the report of the GEF, the review of the financial mechanism and additional guidance to an operating entity of the financial mechanism, with minor editorial changes.
The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, Trade Union Advisory Committee to the OECD and European Confederation of Free Trade Unions highlighted the potential for job creation resulting from climate change measures and called for employment transition programmes.
ARGENTINA called for preserving flexibility while recognizing that identifying guidance would make the process more efficient.
The AFRICAN GROUP said efforts to reduce emissions from activities under other multilateral bodies should be recognized under the Convention.
In response to the G-77/China 92s suggestion to create a fund to support these activities, Japan and the US recalled that the GEF was the vehicle for this funding.
VENEZUELA urged adding text on reinforcing the current legal regime, as well as a reference to the Kyoto Protocol.
In the draft conclusions (FCCC/2003/SBI/ L.14), the SBI invites the Secretariat to inform Parties that COP-9 will be requested to consider a total programme budget of 1) US$32.84 million; 2) US$35.79 million; or 3) any other amount.
COLOMBIA commented that inputs are a key element of the BM and that the AGBM must be clear about time frames.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need to incorporate scientific information released since the IPCC AR4, which points to climate change effects occurring much faster than projected and greatly underestimated costs of inaction.
St. Lucia, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), emphasized that there is a substantial gap of 5-9 gigatonnes of CO2 equivalents per year between the pledges made and those required by science.
Samoa, speaking for the CARTAGENA DIALOGUE, underscored the need for the Panama meeting to deliver serious technical work on the key elements of the Cancun package and “candid” dialogue on the future of the Kyoto Protocol and a legally-binding agreement.
Ecuador, for the LMDCs, supported by Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, proposed development of a synthesis report on adaptation communications as a component of NDCs, based on submissions by parties.
On deliverables from Bonn, the EU and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a streamlined text.
Emphasizing that the public sector should be the main source of finance, Bangladesh said that global markets had failed to deliver and “no place for LDCs and SIDS” had been created.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU and US said Parties should follow SBI Chair Estrada 92s request for a decision on process, not on substance.
Apisai Ielemia, Prime Minister of Tuvalu, urged operationalization and accessibility of the Adaptation Fund, labeling it as the “survival fund” for SIDS.
The US suggested “hard commitments to soft targets,” wherein commitments would focus on the development of a programme, implementation of P&amp;Ms, reporting and review.
The US proposed separating policy from technological issues.
Initially, the EU, Russian Federation, AOSIS, LDCs and the G-77/China supported starting discussions based on this text.
New Zealand, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, proposed establishing parameters for nationally determined contributions (NDCs).
On the review of the scientific and methodological aspects of the Brazilian proposal, the UK outlined the background and outcomes of the third expert meeting, held in Berlin, Germany, in September 2003.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), pointed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 c2 b0C, underscoring the urgency of restoring a spirit of multilateral cooperation that is not impeded by narrow national interests.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the focus must shift to doing “more, faster, now” and the Maldives, for AOSIS, called for focus on urgent action, highlighting renewable energy in SIDS.
Belize, for AOSIS, supported by Costa Rica, Malawi and the Philippines, proposed amendments, including, inter alia, encouraging UN specialized funds and agencies to support the development of modalities with wide participation by, and through technical meetings among, experts; and ensuring that the modalities are developed in time to be integrated into the transparency framework.
Delegates also discussed the composition of \t\tthe Board, with consideration given to several variations to accommodate \t\tregional and special groups (SIDS and LDCs) and representation of Annex \t\tI and non-Annex I parties.
 \t\tLuxembourg, on behalf of the European Union (EU), urged delegates to \t\tbuild on the positive experience of the SOGE, and supported setting in \t\tmotion procedures on the post-2012 period.
Among key elements to consider in a draft text, Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted: a flexible combination of sources, including markets; and ensuring equal distribution and the participation of relevant stakeholders.
The EU proposed that Parties to the Berlin Mandate will reduce emission levels for CO2, CH4 and N2O by 15% by 2010 with a reference year of 1990.
TANZANIA underscored the need to include adaptation and better emphasize means of implementation (MOI) in the draft text.
The G-77/CHINA invoked Protocol Article 3.9 and decision 1/CMP.1 on Annex I further commitments as determining the AWG-KP’s legal outcome.
JAPAN said that it would consider the ideas contained in the U.S. non-paper and supported the timetable for work suggested by Switzerland.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized the role of the ERTs and suggested that the relationship between the COP and ERTs be taken into account.
The EU highlighted that market mechanisms would enhance mitigation efforts, while Venezuela stressed that no consensus existed on markets.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, suggested establishing a clearing house.
The EU agreed with much of the AOSIS data and welcomed the opportunity to “get underneath” the numbers.
The EU said the information in national communications is an essential first step and added that the GEF should meet the agreed full cost by non-Annex I Parties.
He stated that he would reluctantly go along with the decision, which he called a “victory for the minority.” The EU called the SAR the most authoritative assessment on the science of climate change, and strongly endorsed it as the basis for urgent action to negotiate a protocol or other legal instrument.
Peru recommended the inclusion of uncertainties, while the US said uncertainties should fall under national inventory reporting (NIR).
The EU and Gabon facilitated work to consolidate text on MRV.
On the timing of second national communications, the G-77/ CHINA noted that there is a differentiated timetable under the FCCC for submission of national communications by Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
CANADA and JAPAN noted that it must be flexible and evolve over time.
A contact group, chaired by John Ashe (Antigua and Barbuda) and Dan Reifsnyder (US), was formed to consider non-Annex I Party communications as well as review and guidance to the financial mechanism.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, supported including this item on the agenda.
AUSTRALIA inquired if the LULUCF spin-off group could have a joint meeting with the group on numbers.
Identifying the need for consistency, SWITZERLAND noted that the legal matters group would have to address these questions for all elements of the Protocol.
Belize, for SICA, said the relevance of the NWP could be enhanced if brought under the Adaptation Committee.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the EU has already expressed preference for a protocol.
NEW ZEALAND cautioned against e2 80 9cexcessive e2 80 9d attention to differentiation, saying that each country will differentiate based on national circumstances and that there will be no agreement on e2 80 9chighly prescriptive e2 80 9d definitions of it.
 Reporting on progress since COP 23, LDC Expert Group (LEG) Vice-Chair Fernandes Santana highlighted, inter alia, an expert meeting on national adaptation plans (NAPs), a successful NAP Expo, and two forthcoming Expos.
 CANADA said the BM does not diminish the commitments of non-Annex I Parties.
The US proposed that Parties should be able to raise questions regarding another Party 92s implementation only with respect to the facilitative branch.
JAPAN urged prompt review of communication results and welcomed the informal workshop.
The US enquired about other possible vehicles for capturing progress.
TUVALU warned against heading towards a “mega-CDM” and highlighted that new market mechanisms will have consequences for targets of Annex I parties and for the atmosphere.
Commenting on the provisional agenda, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, warned against transferring unresolved issues from the AWG-LCA to the SBSTA, saying the AWG-LCA should maintain an overview of specific issues that were mandated for consideration by the SBSTA.
The EU said that its ministers had met in Brussels and agreed to a ministerial segment.
The EU, the US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA said the proposal requires broader discussion and expressed concern about, inter alia: the method for reconstructing historical emissions; indicators that ignore the rate of change; and the availability of data.
SAUDI ARABIA underscored that the discussions on developing country NAMAs also addressed financial support, capacity building and technology transfer as intrinsically related to ICA and the biennial update reports.
BOLIVIA noted, inter alia, her country’s textual proposals on a shared vision and indigenous peoples.
It also takes note on support provided through the LDC Fund and forwarded a decision to the COP.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the framework should measure progress toward a global goal of 1.5 c2 b0 or 2 c2 b0C and promote participation of all countries.
The African Group, opposed by Colombia, the EU, Japan, Norway and the Federated States of Micronesia, proposed deletion of reference to the Chairs of the two AWGs meeting to identify issues of common concern regarding Annex I parties’ commitments.
NIGERIA added that nothing in the Buenos Aires Plan of Action (BAPA) required the JWG to finish its work by COP-6.
The US said that there should be no change in status until there is a determination by a competent body that non-compliance exists.
CANADA underlined its flexibility on this issue.
CHINA and INDIA proposed deleting clusters on national schedules and the sub-section on MRV.
The EU stressed that for Doha to deliver a balanced outcome, work in the ADP must result in a decision that captures agreed next steps and provides political momentum for adopting an agreement in 2015.
On Classification of Inventory Problems, the EU distributed a non-paper to help form the rationale for problem categorization.
MEXICO, BARBADOS and others underscored the unequal distribution of losses and risks.
SLOVENIA introduced the draft decision that, inter alia, decides to establish a process and create a framework for capacity-building activities in EITs, urges Annex II Parties to ensure financial support required for the implementation of the capacity building process and further urges the GEF to develop an operational strategy to implement the elements of a framework process for capacity building.
The EU preferred a focus on short-term \t\t\tmeasures, as outlined in Decision 9/CMP.2, which authorizes the \t\t\tExecutive Secretary to take action to minimize the risks of \t\t\tdisputes, complaints and claims against individuals serving on these \t\t\tbodies and also advocated considering legally binding measures in \t\t\tthe context of discussions concerning post-2012 legal arrangements.
The EU stressed the urgency of addressing emissions from bunker fuels, while highlighting the AWG-LCA as the best forum to do so.
LEBANON noted its inability to participate in the CDM because of a lack of capacity.
The EU highlighted the Directive’s de minimis rule, stating that most flights from developing countries will be excluded.
The EU, on the other hand, proposed that decisions stand pending the outcome of an appeal.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed closing all the spin-off groups under the AWG-LCA and called for a “central forum” to help parties understand the status of negotiations.
 On the distribution of commitments, the US proposed flat rate reductions that would bind all Annex I Parties to the same QELROs.
 \t\tIdentifying building blocks for future cooperation, the EU and Norway \t\tcalled for a “shared vision” to reach the UNFCCC’s ultimate objective of \t\tstabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations to a level that avoids \t\tdangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system (Article \t\t2).
The \t\ttext also included a compromise between the EU, US and others that \t\trecognized the methodological difficulties and limited availability of \t\tdata for distinguishing between domestic and international fuel \t\tconsumption.
SICA said the decision on NWP does not sufficiently ensure effective work of the programme.
NEW ZEALAND called for early decisions on transparent emissions trading to harness economic efficiency to the achievement of environmental goals, backed by a firm compliance regime.
BURKINA FASO and ALGERIA stressed that procedures to deal with the GEF can be very cumbersome and that efforts made by non-Annex I Parties must be recognized.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted the need to review the transfer of public-funded technology in the consultative process.
This was opposed by Ireland, Germany, Spain, Norway and the UK, who noted this would give the issue of blue carbon too much prominence, and instead proposed a consideration of blue carbon in the guidance for authors.
BRAZIL said polices and measures must be linked with actions to promote renewable energy, technology transfer and capacity-building.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said proposed actions in sectors should be voluntary and compatible with an open international economic system.
The G-77/CHINA objected to the proposal.
The G-77/CHINA cautioned against confusing compliance with MRV and highlighted the difficulty of ascertaining the extent to which developed countries are complying with their financing commitments based on their national communications.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the need to incorporate socio-economic indicators on income, health and education, while modeling the impacts of response measures.
SAUDI ARABIA, highlighting the fact that FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14 were addressed separately under the Buenos Aires Plan of Action (BAPA), called for two draft decisions.
CHINA preferred governmental officials who are experts on Article 13.
The EU noted that the announcements by Japan, Canada and the Russian Federation to not commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol constitute a step backwards that will influence the political context.
The US also expressed procedural concerns on having \t\ta separate agenda item for the IPCC 92s special report.
The European Union (EU) underlined the importance of domestic implementation of INDCs.
 c2 a0The EU presented a proposal on general accounting principles.
CHINA and INDIA emphasized that the Chairs’ proposal for substantive discussions on legal matters is outside the mandate of the AWG-KP.
Chair Stoycheva said that Rob Mason (UK) and Al Waleed Al-Malik (United Arab Emirates) would co-chair a contact group to prepare a draft COP decision on the matter.
 The G-77/CHINA tabled its own draft decision that asks the COP to define funding requirements from the GEF for implementation of the FCCC as follows: agreed full costs incurred by developing country Parties to prepare national communications; agreed incremental costs to implement measures under Article 4.1 (commitments under common but differentiated responsibility); and costs of adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change.
PANAMA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested replacing text on reporting and accounting with a reference to Agreement Article 4.13 (accounting for NDCs).
BURUNDI expressed concern over access to data from developed countries, and noted the lack of capacity in poor countries to predict local climate impacts.
Spain, for the EU, welcomed the review of the NWP to build a common view on the continuation and strengthening of the programme.
Opposing a proposal by the EU to include references to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the G-77/China insisted that such references should only be addressed in the preambular text.
JAPAN suggested establishing an adaptation information-sharing mechanism.
MICRONESIA called for scientific input to clarify the impacts of long-term targets.
NORWAY favored an integrated approach for the identification of needs.
St. Lucia, for AOSIS, proposed prioritizing: operationalizing the accounting structure; establishing environmental integrity safeguards; sustainable development provisions; and, with Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, allocating a share of proceeds to adaptation.
COSTA RICA said the level of risk associated with the level of mitigation commitments, or lack thereof, should be assessed.
TURKEY noted its status as a non-signatory because it is listed in both Annex I and II, although UNDP considers it a developing country
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported a short and focused preambular section and said that commitments on finance should be legally binding.
ICELAND and JAPAN proposed multi-year targets and VENEZUELA opposed the introduction of targets and timetables.
Stressing that combating poverty is the agreed priority, KUWAIT said issues related to renewable energy should not be introduced at this point.
Parties discussed the inclusion of mitigation activities, with Canada and the EU calling for a balance between adaptation and mitigation measures.
IRAN said it is natural to assess new Annex I commitments.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and PARAGUAY, highlighted the three-phased approach, and suggested that the text avoid using terminology that links REDD to the flexibility mechanisms.
The UK, opposed by Switzerland, proposed an \t\t\talternative formulation that separates the impacts of taxes and \t\t\tcharges from their implementation.
MEXICO called for complementarities between national and international efforts, and private and public sources of finance.
SOUTH AFRICA called for a redraft of the information paper to provide a clear understanding on the way forward.
During discussions, issues were raised by Indonesia, Norway, Australia, the US, Switzerland, Tuvalu and the EU, including items on: the need for more in-depth work on the distinction between supported and unsupported NAMAs and the role of the Registry; the calculation of BAU scenarios and baselines; identifying the most useful international support for NAMAs; and financial constraints and conditionalities.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND called for mechanisms for compliance and dispute settlement.
The EU asserted that levies are the most complicated option.
MEXICO emphasized the need for assessing progress along the way and supported ex ante review of commitments, as proposed by AILAC.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored that consideration of loss and damage is mandated by Decision 1/CP.16 (outcome of the AWG-LCA).
GERMANY stressed the importance of existing clean technologies in establishing the infrastructure necessary for developing future clean technologies.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, proposed deleting language making the option for no allocation of bunker fuels a “priority” for action.
The EU, \t\tUS, Canada and others questioned the need for and mandate of such a \t\tgroup.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and INDONESIA, said that reference to consequences should be with regard to all developing countries.
The UK praised Penman’s long, distinguished career as a scientist in addition to his warmth and kindness as a man.
AUSTRALIA stated that the range of measures must be comprehensive and cautioned against selective sectoral processes in the absence of established criteria.
The G-77/CHINA said the Secretariat should ensure balance between developed and developing countries when hiring consultants to prepare the technical papers.
NORWAY, the EU and JAPAN opposed an ex ante process to commit to quantified support commensurate with the ambition reflected in the adaptation and mitigation goals, with the EU signaling this as e2 80 9ca red line.
Maldives, for AOSIS, urged parties to engage substantively and move towards a streamlined text before negotiations in Bangkok.
On the decision inviting international organizations to present a status report on their activities relating to P&amp;Ms, the US, supported by the EU and AUSTRALIA, proposed that this should be integrated within the decision requesting the Secretariat to support future work.
NIGERIA, TANZANIA and ZAMBIA warned against overreliance on the private sector.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to strengthen coordination between the AWGs and emphasized that both AWGs should finish their work in Barcelona in November.
INDIA said that HFCs must be addressed under the UNFCCC and cautioned that patents granted on low scientific thresholds inhibit competition.
NEW ZEALAND noted that information reported in national communications is already operationalized because Annex I parties are reporting on the ways they are implementing their policies to avoid potential consequences.
Noting recent studies published since the cutoff date of AR5 that call into question the increase in sea ice extent around Antarctica, the US questioned the usefulness of including very specific numbers in this regard.
SWITZERLAND proposed a common transparency framework, which would evolve over time and be applicable to all parties, encompassing delivery, use and impact of support.
FRANCE underlined the importance of providing \t\tinformation to local decision makers.
JAPAN highlighted: substantial evidence that warming is occurring; the requirement for future emissions lower than 1990 levels, if concentrations are to stabilize; the suggestion that a significant amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can be reduced at small or negligible cost; that diffusion of technology is vital; and that while scientific uncertainty still exists, the possibly huge impact requires action according to the precautionary principle.
ZAMBIA said differentiation needs to be reflected.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA suggested that the SBSTA had “undershot” what could have been achieved and that the AWG-LCA had moved too slowly to address the necessary policy issues.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that progress on adaptation communication could be accelerated through a formal linkage with the transparency framework.
Meles Zenawi, Prime Minister of Ethiopia, for the African Group, noted the importance of Africa speaking with one voice, and outlined a short-term finance proposal that includes: US$10 billion per year for 2010-2012; a board of trustees with representatives from an equal number of donor and recipient countries; 40% of funds earmarked for Africa; and a committee of experts to facilitate the launch of the fund.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, expressed his \t\t\tsatisfaction that parties had finalized a number of recommendations \t\t\tand laid down foundations for COP 13 and COP/MOP 3.
Trinidad and Tobago (on behalf of AOSIS) the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Micronesia, Norway, Mauritius, Solomon Islands and Cuba preferred Alternative A, provided that protocols are adopted by consensus or, as a last resort, a 2/3 majority vote.
The EU preferred the test plan and schedules for the \t\tinitialization of the electronic communications with registry systems to \t\tbe carried out prior to COP/MOP-1 in order to ensure the prompt start of \t\tthe CDM.
INDIA and CHINA underscored the need for information on how to achieve temperature goals.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized, inter alia, including commitments on the scale of finance.
The COOK ISLANDS proposed a compensation mechanism for loss and damage based on the polluter-pays principle.
NIGERIA suggested that, as many non-Annex I Parties have yet to submit national communications, information abstracted from relevant government ministries could be provided as an interim measure, as this would facilitate immediate action relating to the impacts of response measures.
BANGLADESH and TIMOR-LESTE requested enhanced financial resources and easier access to implement national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
On the procedures for the enforcement branch, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the EU, suggested text reflecting the right for the Party concerned to have a closed hearing.
 The EU called for progress under all SBSTA agenda items, particularly agriculture as a potential sector to progress on both mitigation and adaptation.
The EU highlighted the importance of further progress on, inter alia, LULUCF, surplus AAUs and the flexibility mechanisms.
Some developing countries urged a more action-oriented approach, with SUDAN suggesting a “mechanism for actions,” while the US and AUSTRALIA stressed the need to focus on the most critical points.
The following countries presented on results and progress related to achieving their quantified, economy-wide emissions reduction targets: the EU, Canada, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and France.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US, preferred to drop the list of information requests and to reference an earlier paragraph in the Co-Chairs\' text, on identification of effects and impacts.
The UK, France, \t\t\tGermany, New Zealand and others proposed keeping the explicit \t\t\tcomparison, while China and Saudi Arabia proposed deleting it.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that ambition must be addressed in the context of the mandates of the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP, and that working outside the UNFCCC risks undermining the multilateral process, causes proliferation of redundant institutions and structures, and fosters inequity.
INDIA highlighted that support should cover full costs of measures and not be based on assessments of needs.
CANADA supported working through two groups, which would make progress possible in the discussions to raise the level of ambition and arrive at a “single, global and comprehensive agreement” for all parties.
JAPAN and others highlighted the importance of the private sector.
BOLIVIA expressed concern that requirements being imposed on developed and developing countries are too similar.
CANADA stressed that comparability should take into consideration the full range of contributions including investment in RD&amp;D and support for REDD-readiness in developing countries.
He underscored President Obama’s plans for a federal cap-and-trade system that will set the US pathway to cutting emissions by 15% from current levels by 2020 and 80% by 2050, and highlighted technological leap-frogging by developing countries.
MEXICO noted that G-77/China e2 80 99s consolidation of options may have taken some options e2 80 9coff the table, e2 80 9d and called for progressing on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text.
The EU reiterated its request to include elements from its proposal in the synthesis.
The EU supported the Chair\'s draft text and urged all delegations to do likewise.
 MALAYSIA requested the Secretariat to prepare possible "guidelines" at SBSTA 2 and a document identifying the technical difficulties faced by developing countries in preparing their first communications.
\t\tSeveral Parties, including the EU and SOUTH AFRICA, said it would not be \t\tpossible to achieve a final resolution on this issue at COP/MOP 1, and \t\tthe EU presented an assessment of all the options.
NEW ZEALAND, with the EU, US and JAPAN, emphasized that such estimates from all sectors should be prepared under good practice guidance, and be adjusted when they are not prepared according to the agreed methodologies.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Grenada, for AOSIS, recommended that parties commence work on the items traditionally included in the SBSTA agenda while consulting on the proposed new items.
Uzbekistan, on behalf of the CACAM group, supported by Qatar, emphasized the importance of ensuring equal representation of these countries on the Consultative Group of Experts on Non-Annex I National Communications (CGE).
 In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the Kyoto Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempt developing countries from emission reductions.
MALAWI said the SBI should mandate the GEF to consider making resources available for the full work programme.
INDIA requested a Secretariat report on the status of technology transfer.
Delegates also discussed text proposed by the EU that would link \t\tthe prioritization of energy efficiency and renewable energy with the \t\tCommission on Sustainable Development ef bf bds fourteenth and fifteenth \t\tsessions in 2006-2007.
The EU, supported by BRAZIL, stressed that both positive and negative consequences should be considered.
CHINA noted the importance of Article 4.8, on the special needs of vulnerable countries for study of regional sectoral impacts of climate change.
The EU stressed the need for the mechanisms to be underwritten by strong monitoring and reporting requirements.
JAPAN emphasized that the range must be based on a political decision.
VENEZUELA, for several Latin American countries, called on Annex I countries to demonstrate political will to fulfill their obligations.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and OMAN voiced strong objections, but the Chair noted many delegations could not accept the revised version.
  Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported an aggregate reduction of more than 40% by 2020 and urged reductions of 85-95% by 2050.
INDONESIA said non-Annex I countries should communicate information on supported NAMAs through their national communications, and that the SBI should establish the guidelines for ICA.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, called for an equitable outcome in Copenhagen.
Provision is made for fostering LDC participation in the CDM.
The subgroup on Article 5.1 considered the second Draft Guidelines for National Systems under Article 5.1 of the Kyoto Protocol and submissions by the EU and the US.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), outlined three important steps for Durban: agreeing on key elements of an international regime after 2012; launching a process to further strengthen the regime in the mid-term; and agreeing on the key elements of a shared vision, including a long-term global goal for emission reductions and a date for peaking of global emissions.
Regarding future actions, GERMANY said it would commit itself to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 levels by 2020 if all developed countries committed themselves to further reductions, and the EU committed itself to emission reductions of about 30%.
IRAN said the CDM should include projects related to both sinks and sources.
The US, NORWAY and CANADA highlighted the importance of the private sector.
On institutions, Maldives, for AOSIS, called for recognizing the Adaptation Committee as the lead institution, and, with Chile, for AILAC, utilizing existing communication channels.
In consultation with regional groups and AOSIS, the AGBM Chair would invite six advisers to participate on the Bureau with equal status to the elected and ex-officio members.
JAPAN expressed doubt over a quantitative goal on adaptation.
The insistence on G-77/China involvement was linked to the level of ambition acceptable by the US and, in response, the G-77/China distanced themselves from attempts to draw developing countries into agreeing to anything that could be interpreted as new commitments.
NORWAY proposed that the reporting of indirect emissions should be made mandatory.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, US and SWITZERLAND preferred a single decision.
AUSTRALIA suggested that projections of the effect of policies and measures on future trends of GHG emissions and removals be developed by sector.
 In the afternoon informal group, PAKISTAN presented a proposal for a Standing Committee on the Financial Mechanism under the Convention.
JAPAN also expressed concern regarding the total amount of resources and requested more information on how increases will be accounted for.
The PHILIPPINES, with the EU, suggested continuing consideration of this issue at the next session.
KUWAIT suggested drawing experts from the SBSTA and the IPCC.
She estimated the cost of these initiatives at US$10 billion.
JAPAN called for maintaining a focus on technology.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the need to consider all parties’ mitigation targets and actions.
e2 80 9d BRAZIL suggested adding e2 80 9coptions and instruments e2 80 9d to e2 80 9careas.
BRAZIL, supported by ARGENTINA and others, suggested that IMO and ICAO should continue reporting to the SBSTA.
 Algeria, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, encouraged Annex I parties to raise their level of ambition, and urged those parties who have not put forward QELROs to do so.
JAPAN said revised methodologies should be used by all Parties, and stressed the importance of equity in this regard.
On unilateral measures, the G-77/CHINA and the LMDCs expressed concern on the lack of text on this issue.
Pepetua Latasi, Chair of the LDC Expert Group (LEG), updated participants on the modalities of LEG support to LDCs.
INDIA said aggregate emission reductions by Annex I parties should be the starting point for an outcome from the AWG-LCA and that its mandate should not change if work extends beyond Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA favored more work on the Secretariat\'s proposed analytical framework and anticipated working through the CDM.
Informal consultations will also be held on a joint proposal from Cyprus and the EU to amend Annex I to the Convention to include Cyprus.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) highlighted, inter alia: that the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 c2 b0C should be published as early as possible in 2018; the need to ensure environmental integrity regarding cooperative approaches; and the review of the WIM as priorities.
While recognizing the need for flexibility, the EU drew attention to the importance of domestic action.
The EU noted that a more compact timeline would add value, saying that the change made in the scenarios for AR5 would probably not be repeated for the Sixth Assessment Report (AR6).
AUSTRALIA suggested specific provisions to deal with perverse incentives to deforest and impediments to new forestation activity prior to the first commitment period.
 BRAZIL noted the commitment to provide financial resources but said that no resources had been received to date.
On administrative costs of Article 6 activities, the EU opposed SAMOA 92s proposal that procedural costs be considered prior to the establishment of the JI Supervisory Committee.
In general comments, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, supported by Guatemala for AILAC, Tuvalu, for LDCs, Malaysia for the LMDCs, and Egypt, called for clear reference in the preambular paragraphs to the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular CBDRRC.
CANADA underscored the role of local authorities and non-state actors.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized that the future framework should be comprehensive and called for new types of partnerships among countries and stakeholders.
NEW ZEALAND said the Secretariat should not be burdened with that task.
CANADA said the decision-making framework should be based on consistency between the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA and the US noted that Protocol Article 8 (review of information) provides a built-in review.
The US, with Australia and Japan, suggested addressing how discussions on capacity building differ from discussions on support in other AWG-LCA contact groups.
The EU, Norway, New Zealand and Japan, opposed by Saudi Arabia, supported having joint discussions with the AWG-LCA on cross-cutting issues.
JAPAN expressed its commitment to reaching a substantial agreement in Copenhagen, which he said should be translated into a legally-binding treaty as soon as possible in 2010.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that he would not be prepared to discuss LULUCF issues before Wednesday.
The G-77/China and AOSIS expressed concern that emissions could continue to rise despite mitigation measures, and urged Annex I Parties to implement more rigorous policies and measures.
On the frequency of national communications, he said complete national GHG inventories, together with progress on the implementation of NAMAs and estimation of the corresponding GHG emission reductions, should be reported every two years, but that the LDCs and SIDS should report at their discretion.
THAILAND opposed the imposition of new commitments on non-Annex I countries by Annex I countries, which have not fulfilled their own commitments.
On the scope, Germany and others supported the proposed separate topic on UNFCCC Article 2, with the UK and Norway suggesting to introduce it after Topic 2 (future changes) and before discussing transformation pathways.
On loss and damage, the G-77/CHINA, with AOSIS and the LDCs, urged loss and damage be in the agreement.
ARGENTINA called for an independent assessment of the CDM, with a regional component, to explore issues such as: financing, technology transfer and registered projects.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed an international capacity-building mechanism, comprised of a coordination center that compiles information; analyzes gaps and trends; develops tools and methodologies; matches available support with identified needs; and coordinates and cooperates with UNFCCC bodies and other relevant entities.
The UK noted that the uncertainty guidelines are useful but could still lead to a variety of interpretations, and called for seeking the views of CLAs, LAs and review editors.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested the APA should discuss the modalities, procedures and guidelines on the biennial communications of indicative support by developed countries.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with SUDAN, BOLIVIA and EGYPT, said discussions should focus only on issues within the mandate of the AWG-KP, in particular the amendment of Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I parties’ further commitments) and consequential amendments.
Task Group Co-Chair Diana Liverman (US) reported 533 responses to a survey of IPCC participants on perceptions and experiences of gender bias, the majority of which were positive, although women were consistently less positive.
NAMIBIA said the SCCF must be operationalized to justify continued expenditures on UNFCCC-related work to constituencies of LDCs.
Noting that she was from a Russian NGO, she said the Russian Federation will benefit from participation in the Protocol, and highlighted a statement by President Putin stating that he would be cooperating with the EU with a view to early ratification and entry into force.
The G-77/CHINA stated that issues such as privileges and immunities fall under the Article 9 review and are outside the AWG-KP’s mandate.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: consideration of action-driven outcomes under the NWP; a decision to build and/or enhance national and regional climate centers; and a decision to strengthen systematic observation networks.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called on parties to redouble their efforts to reach agreement.
On supporting enhanced implementation and ambition of climate efforts up to 2020, Pa Ousman Jarju, Green Climate Fund (GCF), reported US$4.6 billion in funding committed to 93 projects.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, suggested, inter alia, emphasizing the importance of addressing fundraising strategies and recognizing the Adaptation Fund was established at COP 7.
Both JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND favored the “net approach”, but until these problems are resolved JAPAN stated a preference for use of gross figures.
 \t\tCHINA said policies and frameworks are not \t\ttechnological issues, while the EU argued that they are related to \t\tbarriers and deployment.
AOSIS, supported by many others, underscored the need to avoid reporting burdens.
Algeria, for the AFRICA GROUP, said the need for further \t\tinformation is no excuse for inaction.
On a proposal by Canada on cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy, the G-77/CHINA said the item was incorrectly worded on the provisional agenda, and it should refer to the report of the workshop on this issue, not to a proposal.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern over proposals that are incompatible with the Convention and lamented that progress on sub-paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Bali Action Plan (BAP) (mitigation by developed countries) is not replicated with progress on 1(b)(i) of the BAP (mitigation by developing countries).
 \t\t\tWGII Co-Chair Martin Parry (UK) \t\t\tnoted the TAR recommendations for AR4 that had been taken up insofar \t\t\tas possible, including incorporating: more quantified assessments; \t\t\tmore complete regional coverage; more about context, multiple \t\t\tstresses and sustainable development; the role of adaptation and of \t\t\tmitigation; assessment of thresholds and non-linearities; and more \t\t\ton currently observed effects.
JAPAN highlighted differences of opinion over recording assigned amount as a fixed figure.
SWEDEN described policies driving the decline in her country e2 80 99s GHG emissions since 1990, including: a general CO2 tax introduced in 1991, currently levied at approximately US$150 per tonne of CO2; bans on landfill disposal of combustible and organic materials; electricity certificates to promote renewable energy; and tax rebates for low-emission vehicles.
The EU stressed that as mitigation can provide \t\tnet benefits, including in the power sector, the challenge is not so \t\tmuch technical or economic but political and institutional.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for guidance that recognizes the nationally-determined nature of NDCs as the “operationalization of differentiation itself.” Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested that information could be specific to the NDC type.
The US expressed concern about the trend and called for the Financial Task Team (FiTT) to address how to reverse the declining number of contributors and raise the resources required.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said that these would be part of the Protocol.
The EU and Switzerland opposed sinks projects in the CDM, as it raised questions of methodological uncertainty, non-permanence and leakage.
GREECE supported agreement on clear principles, modalities, rules and guidelines for the flexibility mechanisms, including ceilings on their use.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS opposed funding national communications through the GEF Resource Allocation Framework.
 The EU, the G-77/CHINA, VENEZUELA, SWITZERLAND, the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, SAUDI ARABIA and MALAYSIA stated a preference for economy of institutions such as use of the same COP, SBSTA and Secretariat.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed the need to learn from historic mistakes so that they do not get repeated in the future.
BRAZIL urged considering existing technologies and undertaking technological research in developing countries, and, with CANADA, called for analyzing experiences in other international fora.
The EU, opposed by ARGENTINA and VENEZUELA, and supported by NEW ZEALAND and others, proposed a paragraph establishing new market-based mechanisms.
IRAN replied that further details would be supplied at a later date.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, called for concluding work on the Registry.
The EU said only the COP/MOP has authority to decide on the issue.
On a request to the Secretariat to enable the replacement of names of nominated representatives of admitted observer organizations during the meeting in the online registration system, SAUDI ARABIA opposed, underscoring the need to maintain the current six-day time requirement, except for exceptional circumstances.
VENEZUELA stressed the need to establish clear rules for transparency regarding the project’s contribution to sustainability and the costs, risks and liabilities in the developing country.
EGYPT highlighted the need for an oversight body for enhanced coordination on adaptation and a compliance board.
The EU proposed expanding the paragraph to provide greater detail about how the financial mechanism will support mitigation activities and will circulate its text.
Brazil said self-differentiation e2 80 9cwould not take us to an agreement, e2 80 9d and, supported by AILAC, suggested a e2 80 9cconcentric e2 80 9d approach to differentiation.
Co-Facilitator Felson suggested the submissions also address further work, which Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, NORWAY and others supported.
The European Union (EU) outlined as priorities: draft decisions or textual elements on all areas of the Paris Agreement work programme; clarity on how the Talanoa Dialogue will be conducted; and contributions by all to the momentum of the Global Climate Action Agenda.
 AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) underscored the importance of capacity building under the Convention, in particular in relation to ongoing efforts, such as the development of NAMAs.
Noting the importance of pre-2020 ambition and readiness to engage in discussions, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), supported by GEORGIA, supported the President’s proposed treatment of the two proposed items.
Responding to MALAYSIA, AUSTRALIA said formula approaches are too simplistic to account for wide variations among countries’ circumstances and emphasized that differentiation is not a means to delay action, but to achieve fairness.
Key findings include an anticipated decline in future agricultural productivity in large parts of Asia and Africa, water shortages in a number of regions, harsher droughts in southern Europe, and more storm damage and coastal erosion on the eastern coast of the US.
The EU, US, SWITZERLAND and SAMOA said some elements in the Annexes might need to be included in the text.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), said developed countries should take the lead in combating climate change.
 CHINA requested that the Secretariat provide information on the number of meetings under each agenda item related to the Paris Agreement.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported extension of the LEG’s mandate so as to enable the LEG to provide assistance for implementing the LDC work programme.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, the African Group and the US stated the draft conclusions do not capture progress.
He said the base year 1990 does not work for the US and that different measures are required depending on national circumstances.
JAPAN identified the need to retain text on his country’s proposals related to the existing mechanisms under the Protocol.
 The US presented a series of slides on past and projected emissions trends, noting that trends varied year-to-year by region and country based on factors such as population, economic growth, weather, fuel use and energy consumption sector.
The US also called for consideration of the authors 92 needs.
The US urged taking full advantage of the knowledge and expertise of partners, and expanding into areas, such as agriculture, water and ecosystem-based approaches.
Spain, for the EU, acknowledged the need for appropriate financing for non-Annex I national communications and noted, with satisfaction, the GEF\'s fifth replenishment.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to operationalize the global goal on adaptation.
HUNGARY noted many Annex I countries will meet their FCCC obligations.
The EU called for “concrete initiatives” and the application of clear milestones, underlining the urgency of raising ambition.
AUSTRALIA stated that non-Annex I Parties’ national guidelines are eagerly awaited as per the Berlin Mandate’s call for all Parties to continue their commitments under Article 4.1 and requested COP-3 to consider longer term commitments.
PAKISTAN called for sending a strong signal that REDD+ is complete and ready to be implemented.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized the importance of sequencing of commitments and rules for their implementation.
 The UK said that new quantified objectives are essential, but noted that legally-binding targets pose a practical problem.
CAMBODIA, \t\tTANZANIA, BENIN, TOGO and others highlighted the needs of LDCs, and \t\tMAURITIUS and TUVALU the needs of SIDS.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, supported by many others, suggested consolidating options for greenhouse gases under Annex A.
ARGENTINA noted that some facilities \t\twere being moved from developed to developing countries.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, suggested forwarding issues related to mitigation by developed countries, market approach and finance to the political level.
PAKISTAN called for adequate consideration of water resource management and agriculture as separate agenda items or as separate elements under the NWP.
ARGENTINA, AUSTRALIA, the US, the EU and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed to explore criteria for differentiation.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, rejected attempts to marginalize the Kyoto Protocol.
In their opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, highlighted that: the UNFCCC should remain central to negotiations; Annex I parties must make further commitments for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; and additional meetings for the AWG-KP are needed alongside AWG-LCA meetings, preferably in New York or Geneva, to ensure greater participation.
NIGERIA said the SCCF negotiations have re-opened agreements reached at previous COP sessions.
 This item and its sub-items were first taken up in plenary on Monday, 16 May, and in a contact group co-chaired by Hugh Sealy (Maldives) and Kelley Kizzier (EU).
 EL SALVADOR, on behalf of the Latin American and Caribbean Group, called it “deplorable” that COP-2 had not been able to elect officers “in a proper manner,” and requested the Secretariat to continue to strengthen the “consultation machinery.”
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that NDCs are “full scope and differentiated,” and expressed concern that text on the transparency framework is undermining the nationally-determined nature of NDCs and introducing new obligations.
BHUTAN, with NEPAL, regretted the specific needs of the LDCs had been diminished in the operative articles of the text and called for including countries with fragile mountainous ecosystems in any listing of vulnerable countries.
SWITZERLAND emphasized that there is no contradiction between development and climate change policies, and highlighted the role of carbon markets.
 Small island developing States (SIDS) pointed out the potentially devastating consequences of climate change for their countries and expressed support for the AOSIS protocol.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said a registry should be voluntary.
ARGENTINA noted the need for access to technologies, clear regulatory signals to the private sector and research and development.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS urged consideration of mitigation potential underlying targets and pledges, and stressed that a thematic approach has much higher mitigation potential than international cooperative initiatives.
On mitigation, the EU remarked that more progress is needed on closing the ambition gap, accounting rules and clarification of pledges.
Grenada, supported by Peru and the EU, and opposed by Uganda, preferred deleting the paragraph exempting SIDS from payment of fees and retaining the option permitting postponement of the payment of fees by parties with fewer than ten registered projects, noting that exempting all countries with fewer than ten projects could negatively impact the functioning of the CDM Executive Board.
In addition to LDCs, SIDS and Africa, she added “developing countries with areas prone to droughts, floods and desertification with fragile ecosystems, and facing increased frequency of extreme and catastrophic events and trends linked to climate change.”
On the draft COP decision on principles, nature and scope of the mechanisms, Canada and Japan, opposed by the EU, G-77/China and the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), proposed deleting text emphasizing that environmental integrity is to be achieved through sound modalities, rules and guidelines for the mechanisms, strict principles and rules governing LULUCF, and a strong compliance regime.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested a standing call for submissions under the APA.
INDIA opposed attempts to differentiate among developing countries.
CANADA noted that the common mitigation frameworks would help to build confidence that collective ambition reaches a necessary level.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed the outcome as robust guidance that provides parties with the necessary tools to implement collective and individual commitments under the Paris Agreement.
CHINA drew attention to the fact that budget periods appeared under each of the options, and recalled the G-77/China’s objection to this concept.
 \t\t\tRecalling that the decision on small-scale afforestation and \t\t\treforestation in the CDM was only taken at COP 10, BRAZIL said it \t\t\twas premature to discuss a change in the limit and, with AUSTRALIA, \t\t\tthe EU and others, noted market-related problems due to economies of \t\t\tscale and not necessarily the CDM.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, underscored that all developing countries face the negative consequences of response measures, including those affecting trade.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that, following lengthy discussions, his country would host the pre-COP ministerial meeting.
 \t\t\tIn the \t\t\tensuing discussion, INDIA stressed the need for technology transfer, \t\t\tand said all energy sources should be considered, including advanced \t\t\tfossil fuel technologies and nuclear.
He said the EU accepts the concept of carbon sinks, especially forests, but, with the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN and NORWAY, stressed problems associated with permanence, uncertainty, risk, additionality and especially scale as it relates to the Umbrella Group proposal.
Responding to the US proposal, Tanzania suggested using the structure in place under the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund to address issues of governance and access.
The UK and Luxembourg supported changes to the questionnaire, with the UK suggesting that a new questionnaire supersede the one already sent out.
CANADA described the CDM as a “win-win- win mechanism,” i.e., win for the environment, win for sustainable development and win for the developed countries, as they would be able to meet the Kyoto Protocol targets.
CHINA expressed confidence that the outcome of the Dialogue would be in line with CBDR and the nationally determined nature of contributions.
The EU and SWITZERLAND underscored the relevance of CGE’s work for discussions on measuring, reporting and verifying under the AWG-LCA.
She thanked the UNFCCC Secretariat, UNDP Philippines, and the APN, as well as the Governments of Spain, Switzerland, and the US, for co-sponsoring this event.
SYRIA called for reference to droughts, storms, dust and sandstorms.
CHINA, with SAMOA, BRAZIL, CHILE and VENEZUELA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, the US and NEW ZEALAND, argued that the mandate of the enforcement body should include Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 (adverse effects).
The UK moved for an adjournment.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA called for expanded dialogue with the WTO and UNCTAD.
Several developed countries, including the EU and US, opposed references to the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
The US tabled a draft decision that focused on: improvements at the operational level of the GEF; resolving the status of and guidance to the GEF in one draft decision; and GEF support programmes to assist developing countries in altering their policy and legal frameworks in support of technology transfer.
The US emphasized his country ef bf bds position not \t\tto engage in discussions beyond the first commitment period.
Switzerland, for the EIG, assured parties that concluding the AWG-LCA at COP 18 will not end work on financing and adaptation, and lamented that the Chair’s informal note did not reflect progress made in Bangkok.
BELARUS highlighted the needs of countries with economies in transition for technologies and capacity building, and GUYANA noted that areas such as adaptation, technology and REDD-plus offer “low-hanging fruit” for early action.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA said a possible sanction could be the subtraction of excess emissions from the levels permitted during the subsequent period, with a penalty rate applied.
The EU suggested text referring to meeting the requirements of sustainable development.
 On financing, AOSIS called for reliance on market mechanisms and positive incentives.
INDIA objected to depriving developing countries of equitable environmental room to grow.
INDIA, with support from several developing countries, proposed prohibiting unilateral measures against exports from developing countries.
Regarding the contribution to sustainable development, the G-77/CHINA said the recipient country should be the sole judge of whether a project meets its sustainable development priorities.
On the Adaptation Fund, the LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP and the US stated the draft conclusions do not capture progress.
The EU, the Russian Federation and New Zealand also proposed technical text on LULUCF.
AOSIS called for maintaining flexibility in adaptation reporting modalities.
The EU noted those commitments are inadequate.
DENMARK and AUSTRIA asked for more detail on \t\tthe differences between energy consumption associated with CCS in coal \t\tand gas power plants.
The US highlighted emerging convergence on the “what” and “how” regarding R&amp;D, innovation centers, technology action plans and some aspects of TNAs.
The EU said capacity building should take account of different developing countries’ needs and encouraged South-South and triangular approaches.
With the G-77/CHINA, she noted with concern that GEF is allocating funds to technology needs assessments instead of national communications.
The EU, supported by the US, suggested considering insurance and risk assessment, and removing reference to a work programme on insurance.
VENEZUELA urged using the time in Geneva efficiently and undertaking the first multilateral reading of the Geneva text.
The EU underlined the need not to leave any party behind.
In opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, said the Kyoto Protocol is an essential element for the future of the climate change regime and urged serious quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs) from Annex I parties.
SOUTH AFRICA called for focusing on the Convention’s enhanced implementation and said that the Copenhagen outcome should provide a clear and grounded scope for implementation of adaptation actions.
INDIA called for equal per capita entitlements between countries in terms of greenhouse gases to be the aim.
SWITZERLAND said guidelines should include criteria for national enforcement systems to comply with relevant guidelines, and the establishment and treatment of data related to Protocol mechanisms.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed that adaptation funding currently only comes from developing countries themselves through the CDM, and identified the need to address this.
ICELAND stressed the need to reach conclusions on differentiation before Kyoto.
PAKISTAN raised concerns regarding the Chair’s attempt to include in her text all the elements of the Copenhagen Accord, and said some of the language, such as that relating to “most vulnerable countries,” requires further clarification, including through the setting of relevant criteria.
\t\tDelegates agreed to a footnote on storage of mineral carbonates, as \t\tamended by FRANCE and the UK to exclude deep geological storage of \t\tcarbonates.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested developing a practical, longer-term work programme.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and others said the issue of workshops would be addressed during SB-12.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said pledges and actions from Copenhagen and Cancun should set the groundwork for future efforts.
The US asked for an update on the status of UNEP’s library facility.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need to include rather than exclude views, and to determine the nature of the process and terms of reference for the contact group on mechanisms in the lead-up to COP-6.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA and JAPAN, urged limiting the scope of the decision to Annex I Parties.
The US, CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the meeting 92s tasks include preparing submissions due by 1 August 2000, and in this context, discussing the elements of a draft decision of COP-6 provides guidance.
ECUADOR proposed a “net avoided emissions” mechanism (NAE), designed to provide incentives to avoid emissions in the first place, achieve cost-effective emission reductions, increase country participation and enhance equity.
Several countries, such as BURKINA FASO, NIGERIA and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, stressed the need to wait until the end of the AIJ pilot phase before drawing conclusions on its viability.
Following concern expressed by the US and the EU on the need for an expeditious procedure on eligibility, the Secretariat said he hoped to gather experience by 2008, solve issues before the beginning of the first commitment period, and find ways to expedite the review process.
AUSTRALIA reported that the group had met several times, identifying differences on the current role of the SBSTA process and how to reference the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, but expressed confidence that the group would be able to provide improved, albeit bracketed, text.
Colombia, for AILAC, said that some areas need more time in informal informal consultations, citing the finance, transparency, and adaptation communications.
The US urged automatic application of mandatory outcomes.
Scott Mc Donald, Archer Daniels Midland, addressed the project status, drivers and barriers to CCS in the US.
Noting many proposals are concepts that do not materialize into tangible actions, ARGENTINA underscored the need to establish funding and institutional mechanisms targeting actions towards technology development and capacity building.
Delegates also discussed the SYR’s length and management, with the US saying that the WG Co-Chairs and TSUs should be involved at every stage of decision-making and should report directly to the IPCC Chair rather than to the Secretariat.
The EU called for a focus on elements that are relevant for the AWG-LCA’s work on technology and said the GEF should seek a more balanced approach to mitigation and adaptation technologies.
The EU proposed a technical expert review in accordance with common guidelines and procedures, and an international multilateral assessment process.
The EU emphasized that developing countries could contribute to mitigation efforts.
With CANADA, she called for a catalytic and facilitative role for the UNFCCC.
CANADA underscored that her country will not commit to a second commitment period, but said the Kyoto Protocol has many valuable lessons, such as market mechanisms and LULUCF, for shaping the global climate regime.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, called for additional support for the Fund.
SAMOA and the US said the enforcement branch could address specific provisions and the facilitation branch could have broad jurisdiction.
BRAZIL suggested text on an economic mechanism comprising an emissions trading system (ETS) and an enhanced Clean Development Mechanism (CDM+).
Responding to questions, AUSTRALIA noted positive responses by business to the initial auction of abatement contracts and explained the objective of the safeguard mechanism is not to achieve additional abatement, but rather to contain emissions from large facilities.
 The NETHERLANDS reported on the Climate Technology Initiative (CTI) on behalf of the OECD and the EUROPEAN COMMISSION.
AUSTRALIA, with BOLIVIA, highlighted unnecessary burdens such as observers being required to register significantly in advance without the ability to change names on delegations.
The AFRICA GROUP urged equitable geographic distribution of CDM projects.
On the tasks of the Executive Board, SAMOA, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and the EU highlighted the need for the Board to take into account information from Parties, accredited observers and stakeholders when reviewing CDM projects.
CHINA and INDIA called for inclusion of conservation.
JAPAN suggested reviewing legal issues relevant to ensuring each country’s participation.
CUBA looked forward to a convergence of views on a package \t\tof actions, implementation of the Protocol, and regular and sufficient \t\tfinancial resources to meet the adaptation needs of developing countries \t\tand technology transfer.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU said Ministers had agreed during COP-6 Part II that the consequences would be binding and that only the mode of adoption had been deferred to COP/MOP-1.
The US said it would be unable to make any final decision on the draft bracketed text.
On Article 6 project validation, JAPAN cautioned against creating unnecessary bureaucracies.
KIRIBATI stressed the coral atolls that comprise his nation are three meters above sea level, and urged that decisions under the FCCC be guided by the need to save the most vulnerable ecosystems.
The EU preferred a single, legally-binding agreement, but added that it could be flexible on the form of the outcome, as long as it is legally binding.
COLOMBIA presented their proposal on Expiring Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs).
SAUDI ARABIA accepted the linkage of the paragraphs but proposed adding "possible" before the amended paragraph XII.
AOSIS called for the TEMs’ review no sooner than 2017, with a view to their improvement.
AUSTRALIA called for a more diversified funding strategy.
VENEZUELA emphasized enabling environments at the international level.
 WG II Co-Chair Christopher Field (US) elaborated on the possibility of presenting regional material in a separate volume, saying this would have the advantage of better incorporating new downscaling activities, presenting a unique product, better integrating the findings of the three WGs, serving as a “one-stop shop” for regional policy-makers, and addressing local issues related to adaptation and mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA noted that, in accordance with the Convention, non-Annex I national communications are subject to availability of resources, covering the agreed full costs.
The PHILIPPINES distinguished emissions trading from other mechanisms and stressed that it did not imply a right to pollute but an obligation to reduce greenhouse gases.
On quantified economy-wide targets by developed country parties, speakers from the EU, Switzerland, the US and Australia reported on progress toward their targets.
COLOMBIA and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, proposed asking what the outcome should be.
BRAZIL reported on a workshop on a possible format for non-Annex I Parties’ national communications.
Australia supported one commitment period of five or eight years and the EU proposed one commitment period of eight years.
CHINA, with BRAZIL, opposed subtraction of excess tonnes from a Party 92s assigned amount for the subsequent commitment period.
The US said finance-related paragraphs should be placed in the finance section.
The G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and others supported determining the level of ambition based on current rules and later adjusting the level upwards according to possible changes.
SAUDI ARABIA said he would provide a new proposal for the preamble to the draft decision at the next meeting, after consulting with the G-77/China.
The EU said REDD+ emission reductions results should be assessed through an independent review.
The US stressed the need to adopt operational text on MRV this year.
The US, Indonesia and South Africa supported the principle of inclusiveness.
SWITZERLAND invited governments to contribute to funding the IPCC.
The US, supported by Germany and Switzerland, opposed any financial incentives, arguing that this would change the IPCC’s character, although the US supported exploring how more comprehensive support could be provided.
Language proposed by Sudan and US on \t\t\tprojections concerning agricultural and food production was \t\t\tincluded.
AUSTRALIA supported a focus on implementation, and BANGLADESH, with Maldives, for the LDCs, urged hastened implementation.
The UK also noted a related report being prepared by the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) and cautioned against overlapping.
SAMOA and MAURITANIA urged specific reference to the share of proceeds assisting LDCs and Small Island Developing States.
Regarding the need to address accounting of LULUCF activities, CANADA, supported by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, proposed referring to the IPCC report.
On means of communication, TUVALU and JAMAICA, opposed by the EU, CANADA and AUSTRALIA, supported an explicit reference to electronic means of communication, stating that language on the inviolability for all papers and documents, taken from the 1946 Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the UN, does not cover all means of communication.
The EU supported expanding the minimal information required and suggested that revised guidelines include targets and timetables.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern over the SBI’s closing plenary, which was held during the early hours of Sunday and highlighted that such procedural arrangements exceeded the capacity of small delegations.
SWITZERLAND focused on national examples of risk management relating to a flood protection strategy, and the agricultural and forestry sectors.
Suggesting consideration of quantifiability and standardization of certain commitment types, AUSTRALIA elaborated on the design of a spectrum of commitments by focusing on the benefits of a hybrid approach, which would enable parties to take ownership of their bottom-up nationally determined commitments and robust internationally-agreed rules.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for cost-effective and scalable mitigation actions, and emphasized the need to overcome barriers to implementation.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/ CHINA, outlined its principles for LULUCF, including that agreed-upon Annex I LULUCF activities should not change the global effect of the Protocol.
INDIA stressed the need for a multilateral approach to work on sectoral approaches.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, objected to any review of non-Annex I communications.
Canada, opposed by the G-77/China, EU, CG-11 and Norway, proposed a draft decision to permit it to receive assigned amount units equivalent to the global environmental benefit created by its exports of cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy in the first commitment period, not exceeding 70 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent annually (FCCC/SBSTA/2002/MISC.3/Add.1).
ECUADOR requested a presentation from the Secretariat on how the Adaptation Fund can be enshrined under the Paris Agreement.
ARGENTINA noted the third review is like the previous two, and the safeguards policy and arrangements with implementing entities are similar to those under the GCF.
He encouraged other governments to adopt similar approaches to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, and noted that technology transfer can also occur on South-South and South-North bases.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed that adaptation to climate change involves both adaptation to the impacts of climate change and adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
The EU stressed the need to apply the Convention e2 80 99s principles in a dynamic manner in order to e2 80 9creflect reality, e2 80 9d indicating that the way forward is through nationally-determined, self-differentiated commitments.
The US clarified concerns on: ensuring the governing structure includes countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol; fitting the Fund into the post-Paris financial architecture; evaluating the Fund’s effectiveness; agreeing on all sources of funding; and reviewing the safeguards policy.
CHINA called for focusing on targets and the percentage of emission reductions that Annex I countries would be allowed to achieve through offsetting, saying a discussion of the detailed rules was premature.
 MEXICO called for recognition of existing voluntary actions in developing countries.
PANAMA called for more information on activities so that Parties are not dependent on second-hand news.
On the options for the budget, the EU supported a 9% increase, while Japan supported zero nominal growth.
The EU underlined the need for using carbon markets and innovative financial instruments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that a central component of COP 23 must be a strong and effective enhanced transparency framework.
SWITZERLAND said there is a need for one unified reporting format for all FCCC Parties and for the use of IPCC guidelines.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to enhance the implementation of commitments and delimiting parameters for future work to be done.
The US called \t\tspecifically for addressing data availability and needs.
The EU stressed that the committee should be a single body with a facilitative function that helps achieve compliance.
The US opposed references in the text to parliamentarians and legislators as observers, while Saudi Arabia, supported by Egypt, opposed referring to parliamentarians and legislators, saying their participation and role should be considered by each party according to its national circumstances and legal framework.
GHANA, with SAUDI ARABIA, urged considering expanding the list of greenhouse gases.
The US and NORWAY expressed interest in the proposal, with caveats.
CANADA supported a business consultative mechanism if it will facilitate implementation and opposed open access to NGOs on the floor during negotiations.
Saudi Arabia and China, opposed by the US, Canada, the EU and Slovenia, suggested deleting reference to "all Parties" being assisted by good practice guidance in preparing higher-quality greenhouse gas inventories.
AUSTRALIA presented energy-related measures and its direct action plan, including an AUS$2.55 billion Emission Reduction Fund and a safeguard mechanism.
COLUMBIA said that climate change is both a development and environment issue.
COLOMBIA indicated that carbon pools should be accounted for "within the project boundary."
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the ADP text is party-driven and party-owned.
The CG-11 noted that the group could not support the Declaration, but would not block its adoption.
BOLIVIA advocated allocating individual shares in a top-down approach.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said that the AGBM must move forward on emission targets.
MONGOLIA identified the need to update guidelines for national communications.
The EU stated that even if it decided to offset all European GHG emissions, this would not constitute the global emission reductions envisaged.
  In the contact group, SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT opposed discussing international aviation and maritime emissions, stressing IMO and ICAO as the right fora.
 INDIA noted that there have been hints of opening the present regime of the BM, and reminded delegates that the BM draws its substance from the doctrine of common but differentiated responsibilities.
\t\tOn regional distribution and capacity building, the COP/MOP encourages \t\tAnnex I parties to consider further initiatives, including financial \t\tsupport, for project activities, including start-up costs, especially in \t\tLDCs, African countries and SIDS.
Iran, for the LMDCs, called for strengthening linkages between action and support, and avoiding additional burdens, and, with CHINA, for identifying potential barriers to implementation.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by JORDAN, said consideration of including CCS under the CDM should be added to the list.
Cautioning against shifting responsibility to developing countries, NIGERIA stressed the need to refer to who will be responsible for the needs assessment.
Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), said MRV of support is also being discussed in the ADP and called for: coherence and coordination; clarity on the level of financial support to developing countries; guidance on the third forum of the SCF; and finance for forests.
The EU, with JAPAN, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the US, recommended that the options on the compliance committee 92s composition be kept open.
On institutional arrangements, South Africa, China, India, Iran, Tanzania, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others, opposed by Canada, Japan, the EU, the US and others, supported the establishment of an international capacity-building mechanism.
AUSTRALIA stressed links between the NWP and the Adaptation Committee.
AUSTRALIA stressed the link between discussions on loss and damage and national adaptation plans (NAPs) and, supported by the US, proposed that regional meetings focus on risk reduction, retention and transfer.
The US stressed the need to take into account changing circumstances.
The US, supported by Japan, Australia and Canada, introduced both draft language for a decision on JI and an appendix on criteria (A/AC.237/WG.I/L.32).
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that such meetings could help parties to understand and resolve political issues.
FRANCE and DENMARK \t\thighlighted the importance of not excluding the possibility that \t\taquifers and geothermal formations could be used to store carbon dioxide \t\teven if they have other uses.
The EU highlighted reporting requirements.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported simpler, more efficient inventory procedures.
The EU said there is no provision for it in the Protocol.
The US suggested that further discussions were needed.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA emphasized the importance of adaptation to the impacts of \t\tresponse measures, and, with JAPAN and others, stressed the value of \t\texchanging information.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted a proposal for an international programme on implementation of adaptation activities, stressing that it is not a “random” collection of things that could be done, but “a coherent and systematic programme” to address the short-, medium- and long-term impacts of climate change.
INDIA, with SAUDI ARABIA, cautioned against revising the principles of the Convention.
JAPAN said IMO and ICAO are suitable forums to address emissions from international aviation and shipping.
Japan, the UK, Argentina and Germany, opposed by Norway, supported producing a single methodology report instead of a series.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, highlighted the right to survival.
JORDAN suggested launching a review of the adequacy of financial support.
SWITZERLAND said the integrity of the review process requires that the competence of reviewers be a priority, and suggested training as a way to reach both this objective and ensure equitable geographical representation.
The US said: parties have different interpretations of the BAP and that the Durban outcome should be based on the Cancun Agreements; the outcome in Durban and “aspirations” must be realistic; and that it would not launch negotiations on an agreement it would not be able to sign on to.
NEW ZEALAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA said they could not support the encouragement of introducing quotas for Certified Emission Reductions originating from LDCs, SIDS and Africa during the second commitment period.
The PHILIPPINES also linked the expanded commitments of non-Annex I Parties to their potential role in obtaining funding.
The US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that this item address the submission of second and subsequent national communications.
The EU stressed the need to make tough decisions, including being specific on environmental integrity.
On "[initial] assigned amounts," the US and JAPAN stressed that the terminology was dependent on the outcome of the mechanisms group.
The EU stated that it will undertake immediate application of the second commitment period, as this is already provided for in EU law.
The UK noted the irony that “individuals in the room” were involved in negotiating a Conflict of Interest Policy to which they themselves could be subjected to.
The G-77/CHINA underscored Parties 92 obligation to submit information on how they are implementing their commitments.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment that parties were not able to recognize the SED report findings and called for an outcome on the 2013-2015 review in Paris that will serve as important input for the work of the ADP.
The EU agreed with Bolivia on the importance of proper accounting and expressed interest in better understanding discrepancies in offset figures.
SWITZERLAND agreed the SAR should not be used selectively and that low cost abatement measures, even beyond “no regrets”, should be taken immediately.
CHINA said the G-77/China position clearly stated that developing countries would not accept new commitments under any guise.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that developed countries have the obligation to strive to minimize adverse impacts of response measures on developing countries and that this should be clearly reflected in the text.
In \t\tresponse to comments by SWEDEN and FINLAND on their translation of IPCC \t\tdocuments into their own languages, IPCC Secretary Christ urged \t\tcountries to share such translations with the IPCC Secretariat.
The EU, \t\tsupported by CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and others, emphasized that \t\tJI should start immediately and that lessons from the CDM should be used \t\tas much as possible, including accreditation of DOEs for JI.
NEW ZEALAND identified the need for thorough consideration of MRV and called for submissions on MRV tools.
NORWAY noted her country’s proposal to introduce a target for international shipping emissions.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, supported the existing schedule and suggested postponing the establishment of drafting groups.
HONDURAS emphasized its vulnerability to landslides.
TUVALU called for tightening LULUCF rules to avoid creating new subsidies for the forest industry and introducing new “hot air” into the Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA and NICARAGUA opposed the inclusion of reforestation of lands with forest in exhaustion under the CDM.
The G-77/ CHINA requested more time to consider the relevant documents.
PERU requested retaining JI in the text, until the review at the end of the year.
Expressing concern about the pace of progress, the AFRICAN GROUP also asked clarification on the approach to “no-text” options and on the mandate of co-facilitators.
The EU highlighted the need to move forward quickly and supported allowing the Chair to facilitate the process by developing a new negotiating text.
On outcomes, the LMDCs suggested fostering international cooperation and AOSIS advocated integrating climate financing.
Australia and the US encouraged complementary activities outside the UNFCCC, including by non-state actors, with the US suggesting the COP could be a venue for catalyzing such actions.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA opposed deleting the reference but said it could be bracketed for now.
  ADP Co-Chair Kishan Kumarsingh asked parties to respond to submissions, highlighting those from AOSIS and the LMDCs.
Parties discussed an agenda item on \t\tsmall island developing states (SIDS), with the US noting overlaps with \t\tother agenda items, and Tuvalu stressing that removing this item would \t\tsend a signal that the international community is not concerned about \t\tSIDS 92 welfare.
ICELAND called for the application and transfer of existing tech adnologies, and SOUTH AFRICA called for demonstrable leader adship by Annex I Parties.
The US underlined that their interpretation of the Convention and the BAP is different but legitimate.
He said that while the EU’s wish to act jointly is understandable, he remains unpersuaded that this approach would be equitable.
BRAZIL said the first matter that must be addressed is the mandate of the AWG-KP.
The EU said the Secretariat could both constitute a source of information, since it received the ERTs\' reports, and refer cases to the compliance body as a consequence of its initial check of Parties 92 reports in the review process.
SAUDI ARABIA called for completion of the AIJ pilot phase before evaluation of the processes, and for full SBSTA elaboration of the technical aspects of the mechanisms rather than rushed decision-making at COP-4.
ARGENTINA stated that the existing consolidated text on bunker fuels would not lead the group to a consensus.
The US underlined that their interpretation of the Convention and the BAP is different from that of the G-77/China, but legitimate.
Echoing the same concerns, Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, said the group reserves its right to bring up these issues at the next SBI.
The US, opposed by New Zealand, Germany, France and others, \t\t\tproposed deleting reference to 93millions more people 94 being affected \t\t\tannually.
CHINA stated there was no need to establish a new body.
 ARMENIA replaced a reference to returning to "1990" levels with "base year" levels, in light of the COP decision providing flexibility for countries with economies in transition.
AUSTRALIA stressed the limitations of current models and need for inclusion of further elements, such as sinks and all GHGs.
JAPAN said the application of the CBDR principle is not appropriate for international aviation.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed reservations about reintroducing parties’ text, worrying it would create a “ballooned, un-navigable” text.
The EU noted progress on all chapters and its offer “clearly on the table” for a second commitment period that is ratifiable.
 \t\tThe US asked for confirmation that the \t\tdraft conclusions had been agreed, and the G-77/CHINA expressed that \t\twithout agreement on the decision, the informally agreed draft \t\tconclusions remain unapproved as well.
BRAZIL highlighted capacity building as a cross-cutting issue that must be strengthened in many areas, including REDD, and, with EGYPT, noted the need for more collaboration on specific mechanisms to build capacity, including south-south cooperation.
The EU called for a collective effort from all to create low-carbon development strategies.
Ghana, with the US, suggested considering technical issues under the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) and through future decisions.
SWITZERLAND, with NORWAY, JAPAN, SLOVENIA, the EU, the US, AUSTRALIA and COLOMBIA, contended that the AIJ pilot phase provides lessons for the flexibility mechanisms.
Underlying the importance of text on peaking of global GHG emissions as soon as possible, TANZANIA proposed text specifying these efforts be quantitative and time-bound for developed countries and aspirational for developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA said the drafting groups should focus on technical rather than high-level political issues.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said he is still waiting to see a concrete outcome on finance as a “necessary component” of a package in Doha.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at a lack of inclusivity, transparency, and time to participate in negotiations on matters relating to LDCs and regretted that text in the draft conclusions was not discussed in negotiations.
NEW ZEALAND noted that the text captures three separate ideas: striving to reduce negative consequences; that there are positive and negative consequences of mitigation actions; and that the focus of work is on the negative impacts in developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by many G-77 members and CHINA, said the Kyoto Protocol was the first step in the review process and noted that the group was working on a draft decision.
BANGLADESH highlighted developing countries’ respective capabilities to carry out NAMAs, and proposed MRV through national communications.
NORWAY said paragraph 2 is not a biased selection and supported its inclusion.
 Under this agenda item (FCCC/SBSTA/2013/MISC.9, Adds 1&amp;10), Tuvalu, for the LDCs, emphasized comparable eligibility rules for any proposed mechanism.
SAUDI ARABIA and AOSIS opposed nuclear projects under CDM.
Both the G-77/China and the EU submitted proposals for a draft COP decision.
The EU, Samoa, New Zealand, Australia and Japan preferred the original broader formulation, or variations on this formulation.
AUSTRALIA underscored the need for greater clarity on joint mitigation and adaptation approaches.
BRAZIL and the EU preferred that SBSTA "consider" a second workshop after COP-4 to focus on issues arising from, inter alia, Article 3.4.
The European Union (EU) said the APA workshops and roundtables are proving useful in advancing technical understanding.
UGANDA suggested that, in the spirit of learning-by-doing, planning “experiments” should be undertaken in developing countries to see how these would work.
BULGARIA said the first national communication utilizes 1988 rather than 1990 base year data, due to a radical drop in production in 1990 following political changes.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), expressed “alarm over certain elements of the report, which would hinder democratic access to resources.” She stressed that the GCF must possess international legal personality, work under the guidance of the COP and have no conflict of interest between the fiduciary and executive trustee functions.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized equal treatment of adaptation and mitigation, and the special needs of Africa, SIDS and the LDCs.
EGYPT made the distinction between biofuels produced from crops and those from waste.
Calling for a spirit of compromise, NORWAY said that “no family, no community and no international community can survive without a compromise.”
With SWITZERLAND and HUNGARY, she emphasized the need for increased domestic action and called for continuation of AIJ and a smooth transition in the future to the clean development mechanism (CDM) and joint implementation (JI).
JAPAN said the variety of conditions in developing countries requires flexibility without compromising other values.
The UK suggested including infrastructure lock-in as a common element, the Netherlands supported adding the social aspects of implementation, and Saudi Arabia proposed adding mitigation co-benefits to the mitigation-adaptation interactions bullet.
Saint Lucia, \t\ton behalf of AOSIS, said the 2oC \t\ttarget is unacceptably high for small island developing states, while \t\tagreeing that a science-based target is needed.
BOLIVIA underscored that emission reductions from NAMAs should not be used to offset developed country emission reductions and noted that guidelines for national communications should be addressed under the SBSTA.
ALGERIA suggested levying \t\tproceeds from JI and emissions trading.
CHAD stressed that the only legally valid instrument for reducing greenhouse gases is the Protocol and, with TANZANIA, SENEGAL, AUSTRIA, MALAWI, and NORWAY, called for ratification by all countries.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 notes that pledges have surpassed the initial AFB fundraising target of US$100 million for 2012-2013, and urges those developed countries that responded to the initial AFB fundraising target but have not completed the process to do so;
AUSTRALIA called for economy-wide targets by developed countries, effective policies by advanced economies, and a long-term global goal.
At the request of the ARAB GROUP, two paragraphs, on non-state actors scaling up efforts and on using the NAZCA portal, were bracketed over concerns about legal implications of “inviting” non-state actors’ activities that may then cause environmental, social or other harm.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an “effective package in Cancún” and supported an environmentally-effective and legally-binding post-2012 regime that includes mitigation actions from all major economies and reflects a robust transparency framework.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, and Algeria, for the African Group, stated that the AWGLCA should focus on enhancing implementation of existing commitments under the Convention and Protocol, and stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Ireland presented on his country’s share of the EU’s pledge.
 On this issue (FCCC/SBSTA/2008/MISC.9), JAPAN noted overlap with discussions under the AWG-LCA.
SLOVENIA, supported by GERMANY, proposed \t\ta reference to Article 2 of the UNFCCC (ultimate objective).
On  , the G-77/China, with AOSIS, the LDCs, the African Group, and others, supported establishment of a permanent adaptation body under the Convention to, inter alia: assess adaptation needs of developing countries; formulate guidance; develop technical criteria; and facilitate implementation.
The US welcomed an annex.
PANAMA, for Central American Parties, drew attention to a new GEF regional adaptation pilot project, and URUGUAY underscored the importance of the Adaptation Fund.
CHINA \t\tcalled for a practical and substantial approach, proposing hands-on \t\texpert meetings rather than more workshops.
Mexico, for the EIG, described the Durban package as a turning point in the climate negotiations, noting that substantive work must start in the next session on both work streams to increase mitigation ambition and adopt a legal instrument under the Convention that is applicable to all parties.
The UK, with GERMANY and others, said governments \t\tneeded guidance on required contributions.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, said there should be coordination between international environmental agreements, but the process required careful consideration given the possible implications for industry.
CHINA called for: a more streamlined project approval process; transparency in incremental cost calculation, and, with IRAN, no conditionalities attached to the activities of multilateral funding institutions, which was opposed by CANADA.
ETHIOPIA and VENEZUELA stressed that parties have the right to suggest new text.
Calling for a focus on LDCs, SIDS and the most vulnerable countries, BANGLADESH said existing arrangements for delivery were insufficient.
Colombia, for AILAC, proposed linking the global stocktake with the IPCC’s assessment cycle.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed the need for scarcity in the market to increase the carbon price, and SENEGAL highlighted that the carbon market should function as an incentive for investment.
IRAN said the EU proposal was premature and SAUDI ARABIA urged that AGBM complete a negotiating text and not leave work for the Chair.
The EU elaborated on modalities and procedures for a new market-based mechanism, saying that its implementation would rest with the host country and that the mechanism would: be subject to a common set of rules under the UNFCCC; avoid double counting; promote environmental integrity; and provide a new source of finance.
On modalities for inter-linkage, the US noted the need to link Articles 5 (national system to estimate emissions), 7 (communication of information), 6 (joint implementation), 12 (CDM) and 17 (emissions trading) to compliance because the first two are means to assess conformity with assigned amounts and the last three are means to meet commitments.
 NORWAY advocated common emission targets for groups of Parties, such as the OECD, which would be achieved through equitable and appropriate contributions by each of the Parties.
SAINT LUCIA proposed a placeholder for a new annex z for countries falling outside of the proposed new annexes.
The GAMBIA said that the GEF should not operate alongside the financial mechanism because developed countries would only make contributions to the GEF.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported a Declaration that would consider the human dimension to climate change.
She said the EU must be assured that others will agree on a new legally binding framework.
PERU called for adaptation to be integrated into existing national plans and called for the use of tools from the Nairobi work programme.
INDIA said they should explain how these proposals embody common but differentiated responsibilities, and how they relate to Convention Article 4.1(c).
AUSTRIA suggested that the SYR writing team should be consulted to determine timing.
NEW ZEALAND, the US, INDIA, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, PERU and others said language on independent review is needed, while CHINA suggested that discussion of review occur under the AWG-LCA.
Regarding text on a framework for capacity building for developing countries that refers to a special fund to support implementation of this framework by the LDCs, the US said he believed that many elements of this framework are relevant for GEF funding, although some may not be.
The NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY OF MEXICO and UN OFFICE OF OUTER SPACE AFFAIRS highlighted the need to help indigenous communities identify how weather patterns are changing.
Issues discussed included the need to extend the LEG’s mandate, implement national adaptation programmes of action and consider other issues in the LDC work programme.
On communications from non-Annex I Parties, contact group Co-Chair Reifsnyder (US) said he hoped for a resolution of some translation issues by Friday.
Delegates debated a proposal from CHINA for specifying "Annex I" whenever "Parties" were mentioned.
JAMAICA stressed the need for transparency in the consultative process on the rules of procedure.
On the  , the US said that the text on a shared vision was different from text on other building blocks in the sense that it is not operational but political text.
The AFRICAN GROUP stressed, inter alia, the political will of developing countries to participate effectively in the transparency framework.
The EU also stressed \t\tthe need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and called for an \t\tinclusive post-2012 negotiation process under the Convention and \t\tProtocol.
Sweden, for the European Union (EU), stressed that a new agreement should build on the Kyoto Protocol.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said a shared vision should include the right of developing countries to sustainable development and highlighted the need for adaptation policies, including risk reduction strategies.
The EU expressed regret at this position, highlighting that to achieve an outcome in Copenhagen, all AWG-KP contact groups must work in Barcelona.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS stressed the need for urgent action and said the socioeconomic effects of actions should be considered against the baseline of no action at all.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, JAPAN, CHILE and others welcomed the table as useful.
AUSTRALIA highlighted performance indicators.
The EU stressed the need for consistency and symmetry within all definitions, while CHINA said it would be premature to agree on definitions relevant to Protocol Article 3.4 (additional activities).
The CZECH REPUBLIC said cooperation should be based on clear rules.
JAPAN stated that only vulnerable countries should have “partly conditional” INDCs.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that few developed countries would reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 2000.
BURKINA FASO suggested according the insurance industry observer status in the climate process to enhance their understanding of the issue.
A number of countries, such as the US, NEW ZEALAND and SAUDI ARABIA said that the substance of the instrument should determine its form and possible features.
The US supported a “spectrum approach” whereby each country presenting its nationally-determined contribution as reflected in national schedules.
On information submitted under Article 7.2 (national communication), the EU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed reporting on "demonstrable progress."
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the Talanoa Dialogue to ensure that the findings from the IPCC special report on 1.5 c2 b0C are taken up before COP 24 and, on loss and damage, called for intersessional discussions, expert groups under the WIM ExCom, and building linkages to the Convention’s Financial Mechanism.
  The G-77/CHINA, the EU and others supported parallel consideration of adaptation and mitigation.
Others, including Australia, the EU, Switzerland and New Zealand, emphasized that the need to discuss all proposed amendments in the Chair’s text and emphasized that as they prepare to take on obligations for economy-wide emission reductions, they require clarity on what these commitments would entail.
CHINA said only developed countries have the responsibility to provide support to developing countries, and cautioned against introducing new principles.
On continuing information exchange, delegates discussed revised text proposed by the US on "considering ways" to facilitate cooperation on P&amp;Ms under Article 2.1(b).
The EU and TUVALU highlighted the incompleteness of existing data, and delegates discussed specific data submissions.
The African Group, supported by AOSIS and AILAC, stressed that one day of the transparency roundtable should be dedicated to transparency of support.
Cyprus, for the EU, expressed disappointment with the lack of distinction in the informal overview note between issues mandated by Durban and other issues.
INDIA noted the lack of metrics on what constitute incremental costs.
GABON said decisions relating to REDD-plus for forest nations require greater national coordination than implementation of NAMAs.
On MRV, Nauru, for AOSIS, supported reference to national communications and biennial update reports for communicating commitments, stressing the need to build on existing reporting modalities.
The EU said care should be taken when drafting conclusions, using the term "Parties not included in Annex I," as employed in the UNFCCC text.
CHINA supported an adaptation committee or subsidiary body, and establishing regional centers in developing countries.
On the \t\tshare of proceeds to cover the Board 92s administrative expenses, the \t\tdecision adopts a progressive approach, with the first 15,000 CERs per \t\tproject being subject to a lower levy of US$0.10 and the subsequent to \t\tUS$0.20.
COLOMBIA said the CDM should: ensure sufficient additionality; provide for equal treatment between the three mechanisms; recognize the unilateral model for the formulation of projects; and focus on prioritizing the sustainable development aspect of CDM.
VENEZUELA stated that Article 4.2(d) only calls for review of commitments under 4.2(a) and (b).
CROATIA introduced a new technical paper.
 Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) underscored the objective of delivering a negotiating text on Friday and that the main task of the ADP contact group will be to ensure that the text fully reflects parties’ positions.
ARGENTINA, opposed by the EU and others, proposed that the SCCF be used to finance activities that are complementary to those funded by the climate change focal areas of the GEF, the LDC Fund, and bilateral and multilateral sources.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the need to fully implement the LDC work programme, in particular, national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
The US said that the SBSTA should define its relationship with the IPCC and consider how to obtain appropriate technical information through the TAPs.
INDONESIA called for equal recognition of the rights of local communities.
Citing transparency of the TSU as the broader concern, the US suggested support for developing country Co-Chairs could be enhanced in other ways, including with support from Ph.D. students.
On recommendations for the SBSTA, Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, called for addressing: stress-resistant breeds; irrigation and water harvesting; and ecosystem-based adaptation.
UZBEKISTAN, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, sought clear definitions of core concepts.
SRI LANKA called for training for adaptation in all regions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, called for COP 23 to work on developing implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement, clarifying the Talanoa Dialogue design and advancing the Global Climate Action Agenda.
AILAC proposed that high-level engagement address: a summary of the TEMs; UN Climate Summit follow-up; and new announcements.
The EU highlighted the need to deliver in Warsaw a process and proposed a step-wise approach to formulating mitigation commitments: exploring options and ex ante clarity for post-2020 commitments; allowing parties to formulate and put forward their commitments; a review of proposed commitments assessing if they are sufficient to be on track to the 2ºC goal; and inscribing commitments into the 2015 agreement.
FRANCE emphasized that this century will either be recorded as the century of climate change suffering and collective irresponsibility or the century of climate control and the maturing of humanity.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said inter alia, the EIG is committed to an ambitious, fair and balanced climate regime.
CANADA called for analysis to find the optimal solution, and with NORWAY, the LDCs and SWITZERLAND, suggested submissions from parties and/or a technical paper from the Secretariat.
The G-77/ CHINA objected to the inclusion of a reference to non-Annex I Parties.
CANADA said it must indicate where there has been progress and where uncertainties have been reduced since TAR.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, suggested deleting the paragraph.
 Under this agenda item (FCCC/SBSTA/2013/MISC.12, Add.1 and MISC.13), Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, noted that non-market approaches were helpful in situations of low abatement costs, risks of non-permanence and low data reliability.
The EU, supported by Norway, proposed having an option stating that no decision should be taken on this issue.
NIGERIA welcomed joint efforts by UN Environment Programme and UN Development Programme to assist in the establishment of NIEs.
CHINA, SUDAN, INDIA, BOLIVIA, SAUDI ARABIA and Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the African Group’s statement and highlighted that the solution refers not only to time devoted to numbers, but also to the need for progress on concrete, specific and ambitious numbers.
GRENADA and BRAZIL opposed the proposal for a full-time chair, noting the existence of a full-time Secretariat and highlighting that the proposal would only favor those countries that can afford to support a full-time chair.
AUSTRALIA said sectoral approaches can assist parties in meeting obligations, but that they should not replace economy-wide commitments or be imposed on countries.
BRAZIL suggested creating an institutional mechanism on technology development and transfer, including special financial instruments under the UNFCCC.
Nauru, for AOSIS, raised concerns over “window dressing,” such as accounting tricks and conditionalities, and supported a five-year commitment period.
JAPAN did not favor a simple amendment to the Kyoto Protocol and urged a single, comprehensive, legally-binding post 2012 framework.
Responding to a question on pre-conditions, the EU noted: that work needed to be completed on all negotiating tracks at the same time; that conditions were not met in Cancun; and stated that the EU needed to know what the rules are before they can move forward and “sign the contract.”
On funding, BOLIVIA lamented the lack of predictability.
IRAN asked how the CTCN will address regional technology issues.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA cautioned against excessive burdens and said unilateral measures could undermine international cooperation.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, highlighted duplication in paragraphs relating to planning and said some of the level of detail might be too prescriptive.
The EU reiterated that all countries, excluding the LDCs, should contribute to financing, at least domestically.
The US noted the Secretariat\'s concern about time and resources needed for in-depth reviews.
Noting the efforts to provide flexibility, the US said he could not accept the paper as a consensus document.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, encouraged digitalizing historical data.
On legal matters, BOTSWANA called for a clear indication of the objective to develop text on Protocol amendments under Article 3.9 by AWG-KP 8.
SAUDI ARABIA said subsidy removal should also apply to nuclear energy.
CHINA highlighted the need for systemic solutions and the participation of all.
The preconditions for raising the question of additional obligations will occur when Russia’s GDP per capita is comparable to the OECD countries.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, said that the Montreal Protocol language may not be appropriate and preferred referring to national security.
The NETHERLANDS highlighted the need for increased financial flows to the most vulnerable countries.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by ARGENTINA, AOSIS, SAUDI ARABIA and other developing countries, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement on the financial mechanism.
ARGENTINA and BRAZIL said mitigation measures should be compatible with WTO rules.
COSTA RICA highlighted the need for: clarity on the legal nature of the AWG-LCA’s outcome; a decision under the AWG-KP on emission reductions; and progress on technology transfer, financing, capacity building, REDD+ and adaptation.
He said that the EU was trying to find ways to accommodate delegations’ concerns.
INDONESIA emphasized that Annex I countries must not use LULUCF to shift responsibility away from reducing emissions in the energy sector.
The EU said that issues could be taken up by Parties as well as by the secretariat or other bodies.
GRENADA called for identifying: the body that will carry out the global stocktake; timeline; process; inputs from various bodies; and linkages to other UNFCCC processes.
BRAZIL suggested that market mechanisms be discussed under the ADP, while the EU raised concerns over this idea.
\t\tThe G-77/China, the US, Japan and Australia doubted the value of such a \t\tforum, and also expressed concerns about funding requirements, and the \t\teffects on the time available to consider other agenda items.
VENEZUELA said the lack of a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol could be considered a “wrongful act” under international legal obligations.
The US asked how conflicts of interest of ERT members might be addressed.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for adding the 2018 facilitative dialogue to the agenda so discussions may begin and advocated for a robust review of the WIM.
The PHILIPPINES, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, rejected this procedure to consider these financial issues outside their relevant contact groups, stating that it was neither transparent nor democratic.
SUDAN stressed the Convention’s articles as a useful way of focusing the discussions and highlighted the need to consider the goals to be achieved in Copenhagen, namely targets for Annex I mitigation under the AWG-KP, as well as goals for finance, technology and adaptation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said Doha must set out a work plan up to 2015, including milestones.
SINGAPORE, with BRAZIL, CHINA, EGYPT and many others, opposed by SWITZERLAND, the LDCs, CANADA, the US and others, requested deletion of e2 80 9cby 31 May 2015. e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND preferred e2 80 9cwell before COP 21, e2 80 9d with TURKEY agreeing to e2 80 9cbefore e2 80 9d COP 21.
SPAIN emphasized the need for temporal and \t\tspatial disaggregation of scenarios, and CHILE emphasized the relevance \t\tof regional scenarios for decision makers.
The US, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, with SWITZERLAND, suggested donors include all parties in a position to do so and that developing parties “in need” be eligible for support.
Susan Solomon (US), Working Group I Co-Chair, \t\tsupported by the US and Canada, said that outreach processes need to be \t\tclearly separated from the substantive products to ensure the integrity \t\tof the IPCC.
SWITZERLAND suggested defining a period of time in which the compliance of a Party should be assessed.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tAUSTRALIA, CANADA, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and others welcomed the \t\t\topportunity to discuss the proposal.
Regarding the interim allocation, the EU said it regards this proposal as a positive attempt to give certainty and security to the financing of the Protocol, while JAPAN said these costs should be included in the Supplemental Trust Fund, not in the core budget.
\t\tThe US highlighted capacity building and cooperation between governments \t\tand the private sector.
The US, opposed by the G-77/China, recommended text requiring non-Annex I Parties to submit national inventories every two years.
 This issue was taken up in the opening SBSTA Plenary on Wednesday, 23 October, and in informal consultations led by Terry Carrington (UK) and Philip Gwage (Uganda) throughout the week.
The US, supported by Canada and others, expressed concern with reopening of issues and proposed establishing spin-off groups to consider issues specifically mandated by COP 17.
COLOMBIA suggested breaking the discussion into what will be financed by the fund and where finances will come from.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the US, stressed the need to keep the two AWGs as separate and parallel processes, while NEW ZEALAND and others highlighted their interlinkages.
Noting consensus is needed for adopting conclusions, Ecuador, for the G-77/China, stated that this issue deserves consideration.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored compliance, noting that MRV of financial support from developed countries should be undertaken in “a robust and rigorous manner.” He emphasized the importance of ensuring coherence between the financial mechanism and the thematic bodies, with each body having its own governance structure.
NORWAY noted the level of convergence and optimism in the pre-sessional consultations and, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed the importance of keeping a balance between bottom-up and top-down approaches.
The US queried if this would mean that the atlas is subject to acceptance by the Panel like other chapters, and this was confirmed by Secretary Christ.
At the end of a preambular paragraph on special needs, EL SALVADOR requested adding “and the Central American isthmus.” In a paragraph on the long-term vision for technology development and transfer (Article 7), MEXICO asked that “socially and environmentally sound technology” be reinserted.
Belgium, for the EU, welcomed the Chair’s note, but underscored that elements on mitigation and MRV are missing.
Austria, the UK, Germany, South \t\t\tAfrica, New Zealand and others, opposed by India and Saudi Arabia, \t\t\tcalled for incorporating quantitative information.
On methodological guidance for non-market-based approaches, BOLIVIA presented a revised proposal on a joint mitigation and adaptation approach for sustainable management of forests (FCCC/SBSTA/2014/CRP.1).
The US suggested removing reference to “competition for finite resources,” and replacing reference to “mitigation opportunities in diet changes” with “energy intensity of food systems.” FWCC opposed, noting that diet changes are a way for individual citizens to contribute to mitigation efforts.
INDIA stressed that the possible elements of a Cancun outcome should emerge from ongoing discussions in the drafting groups and that efforts to make progress should consider these discussions.
INDIA, Saudi Arabia, Argentina and China supported using a submission made by India as a basis for discussion.
Noting that his country e2 80 99s emissions peaked in 2005 due to a e2 80 9cvigorous e2 80 9d renewable energy support policy, PORTUGAL presented provisional results under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s compliance assessment during the first commitment period, which indicates a 17% overachievement of Portugal e2 80 99s emission target of 27% compared to 1990 levels.
MALAYSIA stressed ensuring the environmental integrity of CDM projects.
On moving work under the forum forward, the EU suggested more focus on a just transition in the energy sector and on decent work in the agriculture sector.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for effective MOI for the most vulnerable countries.
Bolivia, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), underlined the need to avoid renegotiating the Paris Agreement and to reflect the Convention’s principles, including equity and common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR).
CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, specified that Protocol Article 18 (compliance) refers to 93binding consequences 94 and opposed the proposed terminology change.
MARSHALL ISLANDS, on behalf of AOSIS, stressed the need for hard targets for CO2 reductions.
AUSTRALIA supported working together on new market mechanisms and PAPUA NEW GUINEA said market mechanisms need to have strong environmental integrity.
South Africa, for BASIC, expressed disappointment with the lack of progress in the consideration of the elements of the 2015 agreement, and, with the LDCs, called for discussions in Lima in more focused groups.
The EU highlighted the task in Bonn to take forward what was mandated in Durban and lamented lack of sufficient progress in this regard.
Bolivia echoed Argentina’s statement for the G-77/China, saying there are insufficiencies and ambiguity in the results from Cancun and that the underlying issues, particularly political will, must be resolved before South Africa.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for analyzing existing INDCs.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said an aspirational goal would be acceptable if underpinned by binding and ambitious targets for developed countries, including targets of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and at least 50% by 2050.
MAURITIUS highlighted the important assistance that developed countries can provide developing countries in terms of capacity building for both human resources and equipment.
 \t\tThe G-77/CHINA urged \t\timmediate operationalization of the Adaptation Fund with adequate and \t\tpredictable resources, a greater focus on capacity building, and a \t\tdecision on the scope of activities and replenishment for the LDC Fund.
Niang Diop then elaborated on the 93second generation 94 of methodologies developed in recent years, including the UNDP APF, the LDC national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs), and the UK Climate Impacts Programme.
The Arab Group and Iran, opposed by the US and Switzerland, stressed the need to focus on the full scope of NDCs as defined in Paris Agreement Article 3 (NDCs, including progression and support).
  Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the impacts of response measures on developing countries and proposed holding a contact group.
 The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that most Annex I countries have failed to implement their commitments.
He explained that this was in order to avoid “paralysis.” BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and SAUDI ARABIA said they could only support a consensus approach.
The US recommended the issue be deferred until SBSTA clarifies the tasks envisioned for experts so they do not duplicate the work of other fora.
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the need to encourage implementation of actions based on the NWP and, with Lesotho, for the LDCs, reiterated the call for a technical review of the science related to limiting temperature increase to under 1.5°C.
On the EB, Norway, Canada, Japan and the US, opposed by the G-77/China, highlighted a role for the EB in determining new baseline and monitoring methodologies.
In response, SAUDI ARABIA stressed that Annex I parties were obligated to report on potential consequences from their first national communications.
The US said information sharing between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties would facilitate capacity building and technology transfer activities.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said negotiations on numbers are secondary to political discussions on the second commitment period.
On the draft decision, the EU, Japan and Norway questioned the need for text on principles.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed differentiating among developing countries, while SWITZERLAND proposed a global carbon tax.
The EU said a draft protocol should be negotiated at AGBM-6 based on a synthesis of proposals received in time for AGBM-5.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that a shared vision should be comprised of, and defined equally by, the four building blocks.
JAPAN pointed to information from the GEF and GCF.
On high-level engagement, JAPAN, with the EU, NORWAY and BANGLADESH, supported timely delivery of TEM outcomes to policymakers.
The US and CANADA suggested postponing consideration of the review of guidelines on national communications until SB-14.
BARBADOS said the needs of Africa, LDCs and SIDS should be prioritized in the initial phase.
The \t\tNETHERLANDS, for the EU, said the last decade and the entry into force \t\tof the Protocol have provided the foundations for increased \t\tinternational action on climate change.
Supported by the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others, URUGUAY proposed that the SBSTA consider the agricultural sector in 2010.
BANGLADESH said the report should also consider the role of implementing agencies.
In the afternoon, on the roundtables, the EIG, supported by the African Group, the LDCs, the EU and Norway, proposed one day for mitigation, two days for transparency and, with Argentina, also for Brazil and Uruguay, one day for adaptation communications.
On recommending text of a protocol, another legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention, the Russian Federation, with the EU and Tuvalu, proposed including reference to Convention Article 17 (protocols) and applied rules of procedure, so that the six-month rule for introducing text can be adhered to.
The EU and NORWAY said there is no need for further submissions.
She sought clarity on references to timeframes and benchmarks, and, with the EU, queried whether support for technologies constituted capacity building.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said a successful termination of the AWG-LCA requires agreement on comparable targets and common accounting rules to ensure transparency and coherence among developed countries.
NEW ZEALAND, the US, AUSTRALIA and the EU proposed deleting paragraphs on a e2 80 9cForum on Accelerated Implementation of Enhanced pre-2020 Climate Action.
Many parties expressed appreciation for the conclusion of work on this agenda item, with PANAMA announcing she looked forward to focusing attention on ADP negotiations, and the EU noting that guidance on safeguards information systems could be improved.
The EU stated that a COP decision could strengthen institutions, while IRAN preferred doing so in the agreement.
CANADA called for an iterative and comprehensive work programme for the AWGLCA, urged discussion of all building blocks at each session, possibly in sub-working groups, and stressed linkages with the AWG.
The EU stated that the mechanisms should be developed parallel to and consistent with each other.
TANZANIA proposed that the TEC explore synergies with other MEAs, including the Stockholm and Basel Conventions’ regional centers.
INDIA, with CHINA, stressed the importance of including the notion of common but differentiated responsibilities in the principles section.
e2 80 9d CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA preferred to e2 80 9ctake note of e2 80 9d rather than e2 80 9cuse e2 80 9d information.
BRAZIL, with THAILAND, LIBERIA and BANGLADESH, called for a quick and simple establishment of REDD.
NEW ZEALAND discussed experiences in incorporating LULUCF in its emissions trading scheme and identified LULUCF rules under the Protocol that should be reviewed.
The EIG, the EU, LDCs and the Marshall Islands stressed that international cooperative initiatives are not the most efficient option and urged focus should be on options with highest mitigation potential.
BOLIVIA stressed indigenous peoples’ rights and the right to development.
 \t\tEmphasizing the IPCC 92s position as an intergovernmental organization and \t\tthat individuals must represent their own countries, the RUSSIAN \t\tFEDERATION expressed support for removing the brackets around Rule 20, \t\tas did others, including ARGENTINA, AUSTRIA, SAUDIA ARABIA, FRANCE, the \t\tUS, CHINA, and KENYA.
 \t\t\tRegarding costs and benefits of various abatement pathways, the UK, \t\t\tsupported by Switzerland, Tuvalu and Norway, underscored losses from \t\t\tthe previous version of the draft text.
With CHINA, he emphasized that REDD+ initiatives are voluntary, incentive-driven actions.
SOUTH AFRICA lamented the lack of attention to the transboundary impacts of response measures and to ways to minimize negative impacts in developing countries.
CANADA addressed questions regarding its insurance approach and proposed new text requiring, inter alia, that Annex I Parties holding "flagged certified emissions reduction units" replace these units if insurers default on their replacement obligation.
Japan, the EU and other developed countries opposed a spin-off group on technology.
Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed hope that the ADP would demonstrate a “sober, serious and determined sense of urgency and ambition.” She called for a mitigation work programme that makes strides in closing the recognized mitigation ambition gap.
MEXICO suggested entrusting the Adaptation Committee and the LEG on the technical work on adaptation, and called attention to the need for guidance on transparency of support.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted its Green Economy Accord, negotiated between the government, business, labor and community organizations, as an example of a social dialogue that incorporates labor reforms, while promoting transition to a green economy.
The US argued that no single set of policies and measures could apply to all countries given their diverging circumstances.
JAPAN and CANADA supported the item on voluntary commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
 \t\tREPUBLIC OF KOREA said Annex I countries should take the lead in \t\tdisseminating technology and, with MEXICO, proposed starting with a \t\tstocktaking exercise.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, suggested bracketing text in the section on finance, in particular with regard to developed country pledges for short-term financing.
On the advantages of producing non-Annex I communications, the G-77/CHINA said that despite difficulties in identifying significant trends, the synthesis of initial non-Annex I communications was a first step in considering information related to FCCC implementation by non-Annex I Parties.
AOSIS emphasized that the ambition workstream must be prioritized under the ADP.
CANADA stressed his understanding that COP-7 decided that CDM projects generate CERs (certified emissions reductions), not RMUs (removal units).
MEXICO and JAPAN also emphasized the need to safeguard environmental integrity.
THAILAND stressed the need to invite relevant organizations to provide information on technology needs.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by India, for the LMDCs, and opposed by the US, proposed moving all the paragraphs on technology transfer under part 3 of the Tool to the agreement.
Saying that the Cancun Agreements contain essential building blocks required for building a future climate change regime, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the agreed agenda reflects Decision 1/CP.16 (Cancun Agreements).
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.7.InformalNote), ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) identified the objective of the session as intensifying the pace of text-based negotiations among parties, with a view to preparing the draft Paris climate package for presentation at the opening of COP 21.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for support for planning and elaboration of NAMAs to be provided within the same support system as for mitigation.
BARBADOS, supported by BRAZIL and INDIA, expressed concern over potentially limiting discussions on these questions, emphasizing the workstream’s more “expansive mandate.” He recommended focusing on the emission reduction options identified in UNEP’s Emissions Gap Report, including strengthening LULUCF rules, avoiding double counting, and delivering on means of implementation.
On Avoidance of Conflict of Interest, CHINA proposed that the member of the compliance body who is a national of a Party involved in a matter shall not take part in " the consideration of the matter."
JAPAN supported use of four criteria for determining inclusion of new gases: specified usage and sources of the greenhouse gases; whether they are already commercialized; the availability of a clear methodology; and the availability of substitutes.
SWITZERLAND provided an overview of their unconditional reduction target of 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 and highlighted that the commitment could be increased to 30% subject to comparable commitments by developed countries and adequate contributions from economically more advanced developing countries in accordance with common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed text suggesting e2 80 9call e2 80 9d parties mobilize climate finance through a diversity of actions.
On the \t\tpolicy implications of slow leakage from storage sites, BELGIUM \t\tsuggested that a reference to leakage of 93small 94 quantities of carbon \t\tdioxide offsetting benefits from CCS is misleading, and proposed, and \t\tdelegates agreed, to delete 93small.
The EU highlighted their proposal on sectoral crediting, which would move a number of developing countries from the CDM.
JAPAN said the new UNGA scale of assessment should be applied.
GRENADA and JAPAN expressed support for using the text as a starting point.
On frequency and timing, various parties noted, inter alia: that this should be flexible and linked to parties’ capacity; reports should be submitted every two years, coinciding with biennial reports; and LDCs and SIDS should be able to exercise discretion concerning frequency.
AFGHANISTAN called for easier procedures to access GEF funding, saying that current procedures favor countries with greater human and financial resources.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by the ARAB GROUP who suggested deleting reference to “degrees” altogether, called for including a request for consideration of consistency with 1.5 c2 b0C scenarios.
GRENADA, supported by THAILAND, suggested deleting the requirement that members must be unaffiliated with any government.
ARGENTINA noted insufficient information on the effects of climate change in the Southern Hemisphere.
URUGUAY, noting that the responsibility for anthropogenic emissions did not rest with developing countries, suggested that this issue be considered by SBSTA 2.
PAKISTAN underlined that the term “applicable to all” must take into consideration both national circumstances and the Convention principles.
The EU emphasized the role of the UNFCCC in providing transparency for actions taken outside the Convention.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with CHILE, stressed that sub-paragraph 1(b)(v) of the BAP refers to “various approaches” to enhance mitigation and not only to market approaches, and that the public sector in developed countries should be the main source of financing.
KUWAIT, IRAN and INDIA said that issues taken up should be restricted to those submitted by Parties and subsidiary bodies.
NEW ZEALAND proposed focusing first on the rules governing commitments before focusing on the commitments themselves, and urged further consideration of land management and forestry.
CHINA, IRAN, the LDCs and ECUADOR called for quantitative commitments and, with the pledge of US$100 billion per year by 2020 as a starting point, proposed, with IRAN, a roadmap for scaling up finance post-2020.
SUDAN identified the need to define the long-term goal before deciding the timing and nature of the review.
TUVALU stressed that, \t\twhile adaptation is necessary, particularly in SIDS, a commitment to \t\tmitigation is equally important.
In paragraph 9, the US questioned the financial implications of transmission and distribution of communications and preferred a more general reference.
VENEZUELA called for addressing legal form first.
The group has agreed that: in paragraph 9, "geographical distribution" will not be placed in brackets, but a footnote denoting that this represents the G-77/China view will be included; the proposal by the US to designate half the members for Annex I Parties and half for non-Annex I Parties will be placed in brackets with a similar footnote denoting that it represents the view expressed by some Parties.
The US advocated a new agreement that: is concise, applicable to all and durable; builds on experiences and practices under the Convention; allows focus on operationalization of elements rather than structural renegotiations; and is sellable to a broad audience of domestic constituencies.
 \t\t\tRegarding tropical cyclones, the US drew attention to a consensus \t\t\tstatement produced at a recent WMO cyclone workshop about the \t\t\tdifficulties of detecting cyclone trends, and cautioned that using \t\t\tthe terms “global” and “trend” to describe an increase in the \t\t\tintensity of tropical cyclones could open the IPCC to criticism.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern with unresolved issues, emphasizing the need to address the mitigation ambition gap.
SWITZERLAND argued that making continuous reference to the TAR in each agenda item of SBSTA would be more efficient than initiating a separate process.
INDONESIA supported discussion of the issue.
The AFRICA GROUP highlighted \t\tthe need to increase funding for adaptation.
NORWAY reiterated its support for regulating maritime emissions.
The EU suggested using extended and illustrative profiles to represent the proposals, which range from a 0.5 percent reduction per annum after 2000 to a 20 percent reduction by 2005 followed by a two percent reduction per annum thereafter.
SWITZERLAND and the EU supported holding an expert meeting.
The US commended the Chair’s “heroic work” in incorporating core issues into a concise document and noted progress in many areas, such as technology, forestry and adaptation.
Chile, for AILAC, preferred existing reporting vehicles that would not burden any countries and facilitate North-South and South-South cooperation.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, stressed that the Green Climate Fund must not become an “empty basket” of false promises and called on developed countries to contribute 1.5% of their GDP.
CHAD requested a list of the technologies that have been transferred to developing countries.
Stressing the need \t\t\tfor the US and Australia to make commitments and collaborate, he \t\t\tsaid negotiations should be launched at the next UNFCCC meeting to \t\t\tbe held in Bali in November 2007.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 invites the GEF to include it its annual report to the COP, information on specific actions that it has undertaken to implement the remaining elements of the LDC work programme, including updating and implementation of National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs), with a view to COP 21 determining appropriate further guidance to be provided to the GEF; and
On \t\tparticipation by observer organizations, the G-77/CHINA preferred to \t\tcontinue consideration of the admission of observer organizations at \t\tfuture sessions.
TUVALU highlighted recent research results from the Hadley Centre suggesting that the terrestrial biosphere may shift from being a sink to a source.
NORWAY highlighted her country’s proposal on international shipping.
On mechanisms, GHANA elaborated on his country’s proposal to issue carbon credits under the UNFCCC based on the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies, and said the credits would be tradable, voluntary, and complementary to the CDM.
SOUTH AFRICA recognized \t\t\tsome informal voluntary approaches but questioned whether the time \t\t\twas ripe for a separate Protocol on voluntary commitments.
SAUDI ARABIA said the proposed forum should operate as cost-effectively as possible by convening two meetings a year in conjunction with the SBI.
Ecuador supported references to “integrity, legitimacy and reputation,” which others opposed, with the US noting these terms did not have agreed upon definitions.
 \t\tUNITED ARAB EMIRATES urged addressing the adverse effects of response \t\tmeasures.
AUSTRALIA underscored that option A is being discussed in the numbers group and that blocking discussion of all options is effectively blocking progress in the AWG-KP.
Underlining the linkages of adaptation with other issues, the EU said decision 5/CP.7 enables important activities to be developed further.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others also urged reviewing of rules on LULUCF and flexible mechanisms.
The EU argued that the purpose of economic \t\tdiversification is to reduce dependence on one commodity, while the \t\tG-77/China noted that since many countries have only one resource, \t\tmaking that resource less polluting should be a purpose of the Fund.
The US said the private sector should become the main source of funding.
INDIA stressed that agriculture is a sensitive issue in developing countries and opposed producing negative impacts on peoples’ livelihoods in the pursuit of agriculture-related mitigation objectives.
Chair Estrada noted a lack of consensus on the proposal from the group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova (CACAM) regarding a clear definition of the term "developing countries" and the status of the group in the context of COP decisions, including those prepared at COP-6 Part II.
With the UK and France, he called for prioritizing the work of the DDC, not expanding the TGICA mandate, and using the WG TSUs to coordinate the DDC.
MALAYSIA, MOZAMBIQUE, PORTUGAL, URUGUAY and KUWAIT also highlighted the need for technology transfer.
SAUDI ARABIA also warned that P&amp;Ms undertaken by Annex I countries could negatively affect trade with developing countries.
However, he indicated that the EU was not in a position to accept this range because a ministerial decision would be needed to change the QELROs target it had set for itself.
The US, Singapore and Switzerland preferred not including a footnote.
THAILAND questioned the concept of “cost effectiveness” in mitigating climate change.
On the question of the number of bodies, the US said that two components would make the split in functions clearer.
Norway, the EU, Switzerland and Japan opposed an ex ante process to commit to quantified support commensurate with the ambition reflected in the adaptation and mitigation goals, with the EU signaling this as “a red line.” Colombia emphasized the need to capture predictability in the new agreement.
 The PHILIPPINES, BANGLADESH and others emphasized the need for consultations on finance to be open, inclusive and transparent.
Another delegate mentioned that the AOSIS protocol, and its targets, could be “dead in the water”.
The EU reiterated that translation of pledges into QELROs depends on defining applicable rules.
In response to the G-77/CHINA 92s query on timing for consideration of a draft decision on capacity building, Chair Ashe drew attention to decision 10/CP.5, which calls for Parties to synthesize elements of a draft framework for capacity building at SB-12 for consideration at SB-13.
Regarding the options presented by the ATG-Finance, the US, South Africa, Saudi Arabia and others supported voluntary contributions, with Japan and others highlighting the value of in-kind contributions.
With SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL, INDIA, BOLIVIA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, EGYPT and SUDAN, she stressed that substantive discussions on other proposals to amend the Kyoto Protocol, contained in the Chair’s text, would be unacceptable and urged focusing the limited negotiating time on discussions under the numbers contact group.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to enhance pre-2020 action and respect the “delicate balance of all issues” achieved in Paris.
94 The US, Saudi Arabia and China opposed.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized the distinction between conditionality of financing and maintaining appropriate standards relating toaccess to funding.
BOLIVIA, speaking on her country e2 80 99s behalf, said finance is among the overarching goals of the 2015 agreement.
NIGERIA asked whether any confidential information would be given, as it was not clear from the guidelines.
JAPAN proposed deleting the paragraph, opposed by the AFRICAN GROUP and MEXICO, who underscored lack of agreement on the scope of INDCs.
ICELAND called for giving Parties credit for the changes occurring during a target year or budget period.
BRAZIL expressed concern with “giving a blank check” to credits from forest management for compliance before even knowing emission reduction targets, and recalled Brazil’s proposal to limit the use of credits from the LULUCF sector for compliance under Protocol Article 3.1.
The EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and COLOMBIA called for consideration of the relationship of permanence and leakage with operational language.
The EU, with the US, said that not all issues would need to go through a facilitative process.
Chile, for AILAC, underscored among key elements: a structure for differentiation to operationalize the CBDR; a mechanism that allows countries to become more ambitious when their circumstances evolve; a periodic scientific review; and a common-rules framework that could be implemented with differentiation over time and include incentives.
SWITZERLAND commented on the process of reaching these decisions.
SINGAPORE said that the text contained proposals that were not acceptable to his delegation.
Upon reconvening, the US read proposed text replacing the disputed paragraph that sets the timeframe for consideration of the matter for SB-18.
The US, GHANA, ZIMBABWE, CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA and IRAN said the Secretariat should not be included.
The UK said an exhaustive list of facilitative outcomes or consequences would not be desirable since it would limit the ability of the compliance body to adopt a tailored approach.
The US, supported by Hungary, suggested adding language on the indicative nature of the bullet points under each chapter of the outline, and, with Norway, Germany and others, on the need for the assessment to be based on peer-reviewed literature in accordance with IPCC principles.
On the structure, purpose and principles, the G-77/CHINA noted its submission on elements that should be addressed to enable the COP/MOP to elaborate guidelines.
The UK proposed, and the Panel agreed, to circulate the new draft communications strategy for comments and revision before the next session.
He noted that the GEF has supported technology transfer pilot projects in 16 countries in cooperation with six agencies, with a total GEF funding of US$58 million and US$195 million of co-financing.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by CANADA, and opposed by the EU and JAPAN, suggested text noting that the conclusions complete the work under the agenda sub-item.
POLAND stressed further work on emission factors since these differ for different sectors, between and within countries.
On the publication of CRFs on the Internet, the EU said the UNFCCC website should contain CRFs to ensure a more transparent process and provide efficient access to information.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted elements of a balanced outcome in Durban, including progress on: mitigation efforts by both developing and developed major economies; the establishment of the Green Climate Fund; the shaping of the CTCN; REDD+; enhanced guidelines for national communications, biennial reports and biennial update reports; and operationalization of IAR and ICA.
Australia, Canada, the EU and US said Parties should follow SBI Chair Estrada 92s request for a decision on process, not on substance.
 CHINA said the BM states that the process will produce a legally-binding document.
The US asked for clarification on language on suggested regular assessments of ready-to-transfer technologies.
Ecuador, for ALBA, said: greater commitment was required from developed countries; there is no room for conditionalities in negotiations; and that transparency in negotiations and inclusion of all parties is needed.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, and SAUDI ARABIA bracketed paragraph 1.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES proposed mandating the co-facilitators to develop a middle ground proposal.
AOSIS, with Bhutan, noted that the objective should be to address the urgent and immediate needs of developing countries, especially SIDS, LDCs and African countries, and called for mechanisms for addressing loss and damage to be captured as part of the scope.
Japan, Australia and the US emphasized that assessed contributions as a key source of finance was not an area of convergence, while the EU acknowledged the need for assessed contributions.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called for a clear set of modalities for the operationalization of the forum and work programme, including inter alia: assigning specific tasks and activities for the rest of the year and creating an outline schedule for 2013 to address the specific needs and concerns of developing country parties.
The US indicated that his country “continues to like” many of the elements in the proposal submitted in 2009, including its provisions on mitigation.
PAKISTAN and SOUTH AFRICA called for treating all elements of Decision 1/CP.17 e2 80 9cin a balanced manner.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed the need to resolve all outstanding issues in Bonn.
The EU welcomed the meeting’s progress on capacity building, a constructive FSV and agreement on the ToR of the review of the SCF, and expressed disappointment at the lack of progress on the CDM and NCs.
NORWAY, with the EU, called for commitments from all parties and pricing of emissions.
The US, supported by Japan, called for excluding reference to loss and damage, saying this was not an aspect referred to in Decision 1/CP.17.
GRENADA stressed that the proposed text was “agreed to by the party who now opposes it.” He said this was an issue of a “moving target,” stressing that “we cannot set the example that parties can derail the process by ignoring good faith and integrity.”
CHINA called for a clarification stage before and during the trigger process, and noted the need to consider different actors’ roles at various stages, including the Secretariat, the CMA bureau and transparency experts.
EGYPT, INDIA, NAMIBIA and the LDCs said the Fund should have full juridical personality to ensure direct access.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA and NIGERIA stressed the need to address both the impacts of \t\tclimate change and of response measures.
The G-77/CHINA preferred addressing mitigation and adaptation separately.
On recommending text of a protocol, another legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with the EU and TUVALU, proposed including reference to Convention Article 17 (protocols) and applied rules of procedure, so that the six-month rule for introducing text can be adhered to.
The US did not see annex-based differentiation as a path to the new agreement and, with JAPAN, opposed e2 80 9cbifurcated language.
On additional guidance to the GEF on support to the IPCC, the EU said that, whereas FCCC Parties should send signals to the GEF that the proposed IPCC project could benefit the process, it was not appropriate for them to prejudge the GEF Council 92s decision-making.
INDIA and ARGENTINA reiterated the LMDCs proposal on clustering.
The US said the list of options provides a reasonable reflection of multiple ideas that could be taken forward.
GHANA stressed that provisions under Article 12 (CDM) should not be seen to replace those under FCCC Article 4.5 (technology transfer), 4.8 and 4.9.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to adopt modalities and procedures for the Adaptation Committee.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said long-term climate finance should not be confined to US$100 billion annually and called for discussing a strategic approach to finance, including addressing sources, predictability, adequacy and stability, and ways to deliver the necessary scale of finance needed to stay below 2 c2 b0C.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the LDCs and others, identified key elements for the negotiations, including ensuring understanding of the potential consequences of policies and measures on developing country economies, and a system to minimize and prevent negative impacts on developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA lamented the “pick and choose” approach of the paper, said it does not reflect the elements of the BAP and highlighted the party-driven nature of the AWG-LCA process.
France, on behalf of the EU, stated that Annex I countries should take the lead on reduction commitments, and called for a global market with liquidity, clear price signals, and cost effective means to reduce emissions.
Uruguay, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the need for flexibility in accordance with provisions of Paris Agreement Article 7 (adaptation), including on vehicles for communication.
On the report of the GEF, the EU, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and the US, requested text highlighting the importance of the third GEF replenishment.
SWITZERLAND and NORWAY said ministerial engagement should not be a matter of routine, but add value to the process.
AOSIS supported an international review process, and accounting and reporting of emissions and LULUCF, as well as tradable units or offsets.
However, the G-77/CHINA expressed concern with lack of clarity on institutional arrangements and absence of reference to performance indicators.
On the various options for the Protocol\'s amendment in the Chair’s text, CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others, supported discussing them at this meeting but retaining all of them on the table.
NEW ZEALAND said discussions on Annex I parties aggregate emission reductions had probably progressed as far as possible.
PAKISTAN noted that an emission target is not the only way of expressing a long-term goal as it can also be described through MRV of support to developing countries which would lead to similar emission reductions.
The leaders of the US, China, Japan, the Russian Federation, Canada, Australia and Mexico were among 19 member states’ leaders present.
CANADA said that in addition to discrete projects, the review should also address elements, such as the GEF’s ability to cooperate with other international organizations, leverage resources and “mainstream” environmental concerns.
On a paragraph in the draft conclusions outlining progress at SB-10 and SB-11, AUSTRALIA and the US suggested replacing 93procedures and mechanisms 94 relating to a compliance system with 93procedures and processes, 94 in order to include consideration of Protocol Articles 8 (expert review teams) and 16 (dispute settlement).
The US, Brazil, the Russian Federation and Bolivia opposed including definitions of “REDD+” and, with Malaysia, for the LMDCs, of “climate forcers.” c2 a0
The EU, supported by KENYA, noted the value of the Registry in matching projects with funding sources, indicating that it should not substitute other MRV requirements.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed the constructive spirit, adding that, although progress had been modest, she was confident it will accelerate.
NORWAY remarked on the need to agree on stronger emissions reductions and broader participation beyond 2012, suggesting that SBSTA launch a process to strengthen commitments.
THAILAND said non-Annex I \t\tParties require time to ensure that national communications provide the \t\tnecessary information.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of building a common understanding on ways to make progress, and of best available science to address climate change and its impacts.
The US and the EU expressed concern over the proposal.
e2 80 9d COLOMBIA emphasized the need to capture predictability in the new agreement.
He noted appreciation for the draft protocol produced by the AOSIS countries and added that there is no time for reluctance.
Qatar, Switzerland, the US, the EU, Egypt and Indonesia posed questions on fossil fuel imports, BAU assumptions and international transport emissions.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the two negotiating tracks should remain separate and expressed concern over countries not willing to commit to a second commitment period.
NORWAY supported a science-based approach.
BELGIUM announced it will contribute e2 82 ac51.6 million to the GCF and called for the GCF to fund transformative activities in LDCs and vulnerable countries.
Patrick Sz e9ll (UK) introduced the report of the Ad Hoc Group on Article 13, which considered the establishment of a multilateral consultative process (MCP).
Several delegations, including CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, COSTA RICA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, endorsed the decisions and acknowledged the cooperative efforts of non-Annex I Parties.
He announced four informal ministerial consultations, referred to as indabas, that would convene under the Comit c3 a9, on: support, facilitated by Emmanuel Issoze-Ngondet (Gabon) and Jochen Flasbarth (Germany); differentiation in the context of mitigation, transparency and finance, including pre-2020 finance, facilitated by Izabella Teixeira (Brazil) and Vivian Balakrishnan (Singapore); and ambition, long-term objectives and periodic review, facilitated by Pa Ousman (The Gambia) and Amber Rudd (UK).
He said the AOSIS States proposed the draft protocol because they are being hit first and hardest by climate change that they are not responsible for, adding that continuing emissions at present levels would be a disaster for all.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), stressed that COP 23 must advance progress on loss and damage, including establishing a five-year work programme, long-term support for the WIM as a standing agenda item and accelerating finance flows to small island developing states (SIDS).
The EU stressed reducing redundancy in the text, and suggested making concrete progress on areas where convergence exists to build trust before addressing areas of divergence.
JAPAN said a \t\tdecision on the frequency of funding will inform the discussions on the \t\tfourth replenishment of the GEF.
 VENEZUELA proposed exploring the use of cryptocurrency for the Secretariat’s budget.
SAUDI ARABIA said TEMs should include consideration of adaptation co-benefits.
THAILAND stressed that such an approach would not necessarily enhance "effectiveness and efficiency" of the workshops.
The EU noted the Paris Agreement provides guidance on adaptation communications, which may include information on support.
On guidance to the Special Climate Change Fund, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN supported using a new text proposed by the EU as the basis for negotiations.
THAILAND said the long-term goal must be considered together with historical responsibility and burden sharing, and proposed submissions on ways and means to support long-term action on mitigation and adaptation.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said that separate draft conclusions should be prepared for the SBI and SBSTA.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA and JAPAN, stressed the importance of the national communications process, and highlighted the recognition of the special needs and circumstances of LDCs in the FCCC.
CHINA noted that Protocol Article 3.9 (further commitments) requires consideration of commitments for subsequent periods to be initiated seven years before the end of the present commitment period and that this complicates consideration of five-year commitment periods.
The US noted findings that commitments are inadequate due to the small number of Parties involved, and called for an item on COP-4\'s agenda on voluntary commitments by non-Annex I Parties.
Reminding delegates that creating new institutions is not enough, Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: time-bound deliverables; for the ADP to be informed by progress under the Subsidiary Bodies (SBs); and to build on progress made under the UNFCCC since 2005.
INDONESIA suggested focusing discussions on further clarification of cooperative sectoral approaches and mechanisms, and their introduction to the global market, as well as how they can be combined with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and with the concept of MRV.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the vulnerability of the developing country workforce due to challenges, such as: adverse impacts of climate change in sectors, such as agriculture; developed country agricultural subsidies; standards and tariffs; and rapid population growth.
IPCC Chair Lee supported by Germany, Denmark and the US, proposed that the Panel adopt the outline of the report, as presented, while allowing the Task Force Bureau to discuss details.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA called for a bottom-up analysis in order to identify financial requirements.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, highlighted the agenda item on the fourth review of the financial mechanism and requested an update on operationalization of the Adaptation Fund.
Brazil, the EU, Tuvalu and Canada called for discussion on whether activities are best considered under the CDM or NAMAs.
The EU expressed hope that the flexibility mechanisms proposed under the Kyoto Protocol would facilitate the transfer of technology.
Participants discussed elements of the CDM, including assessment of vulnerability and adaptation, use of renewable energy in the design of mitigation projects under the CDM, and capacity building for AOSIS member states.
BRAZIL identified the Section as necessary to explain why a new agreement is needed.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, called for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation, scaling up of funding, and adequate and predictable financial resources.
SAMOA said the CDM should promote investments on environmentally-safe renewable energy technologies.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and NICARAGUA, expressed concern with the title of the workshop on “enhancing mitigation ambition,” stressing the need for a careful reading of Decision 1/CP.17.
CANADA underscored that the discussion should be focused on development, deployment and transfer of technology, rather than just technology transfer.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, offered a proposal to insert a collective mid-term goal and then agree on a process to negotiate pledges leading to at least a 40% reduction by 2020.
INDONESIA stressed that deliberations must be guided by historical responsibility, leading to deep emission cuts by developed countries.
The procedural compromise was that the proposals of the G-77 and China, the EU and the US will be transmitted to the COP for further consideration.
Countries participating in the MEF are: Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the US.
On engagement of a broad range of actors for effective implementation of enhanced action, SWITZERLAND said engagement with non-state actors should take place at the national level.
The US proposed that recommendations from the Consultative Group of Experts (CGE) be considered as a basis for improvements of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
On finance, Preety Bhandari, Asian Development Bank, highlighted multilateral development banks’ 2015 portfolio of 20% for adaptation and 80% for mitigation, while the speakers from Belize and the UK stressed the need for balance between adaptation and mitigation finance.
 \t\tThe COP also requests the GEF to continue to provide, as appropriate, \t\tfinancial resources to developing country parties, in particular LDCs \t\tand SIDS.
During the discussions, the Maldives, for the G-77/China, called for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation, scaling up of funding, and adequate and predictable financial resources.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN stated that its form should follow its content, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CHINA, BANGLADESH, MARSHALL ISLANDS and MEXICO preferred a separate protocol.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed significant action by AOSIS members and other developing countries to adapt to the impacts of climate change without support.
SWEDEN outlined a holistic and \t\t\tintegrated multidisciplinary approach to urban planning, \t\t\thighlighting the need for systematic working procedures.
MEXICO underscored political parity of mitigation and adaptation, and identified short-lived climate pollutants as key for increasing ambition.
\t\t\tThe US, UK, European and Australian Business Councils for \t\t\tSustainable Energy supported a legally-binding multilateral regime \t\t\tafter 2012, urging agreement in Bali on a new negotiating round that \t\t\twould reach agreement on a framework in 2009.
The EU, with support from some developing countries, has taken the position that a definite ceiling should be imposed on using the mechanisms, so that they contribute to reaching no more than 50% of a country ef bf bds emissions reduction target.
Sections on regional \t\t\tclimate change and paragraphs on global mean losses of GDP brought \t\t\tto the fore frictions between the US and European countries.
SENEGAL highlighted a standing committee as the “missing link” under finance.
SOUTH AFRICA identified the need to discuss the proposed new mechanisms in a way that does not lead to a zero-sum game.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA stressed parties’ considerable workload and urged focusing on the two AWGs and on a “constructive and balanced” outcome in Cancun.
 \t\tPortugal, for the EU, \t\tsaid growth in global emissions must be halted in the next 10-15 years \t\tand urged a comprehensive global agreement by 2009.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted the need for clarifying elements of the Bali Action Plan, such as nationally appropriate mitigation actions.
The US said the incentive should rather be for Parties to follow the IPCC methodologies as elaborated by good practice.
CANADA proposed using information from power generating \t\temissions, while the US proposed including emissions from both industry \t\tand electricity generation.
 \t\t\tIn the \t\t\tquestion-and-answer session, SOUTH AFRICA questioned Hombu’s \t\t\treference to global emissions and CHINA stressed that the AWG’s \t\t\tfocus should be on Annex I parties.
The US said the quantity and level of detail should balance needs for comparability, transparency and practicality.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND called for key principles governing the rules for the land sector and markets, emphasizing, supported by Chile, for AILAC, the need to avoid double counting.
Explaining his country’s proposal, JAPAN noted reviews should be undertaken in light of the best available scientific information.
AILAC suggested the global stocktake output be considered by the CMA.
\t\t\tAustria drew attention to the different spheres, with the US stating \t\t\tthat this discussion only related to the cryosphere and proposing \t\t\tdeleting reference to physical systems.
  in the climate system, the US and the UK suggested adding reference to ocean acidification, noting it is a key finding of AR5.
The US and Norway supported early AR7 elections before the end of the AR6 cycle.
As a way forward, the EU suggested including the item under intergovernmental arrangements together with a reassurance in the annotated agenda that the proposed item would be addressed.
BRAZIL described it as the allocation of responsibilities among different emitters based on their actions as measured by the increase in global temperatures, rather than by emissions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said recent climate disasters in SIDS are evidence of their special circumstances, and that the UNEP Gap Report shows it is not too late to get “us back on track to limit warming to 1.5 c2 b0C.”
On a sub-paragraph on disaster preparedness and management, CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA and the US, said disaster prevention was impossible, and the terminology should reflect this.
Belize, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), urged progress on issues, such as technology transfer and capacity building.
On workstream 2, Nauru, for AOSIS, presented draft decision text on “enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition.” The text underscores an urgency to close the existing pre-2020 mitigation ambition gap, and provides a detailed work plan for 2013 with a series of workshops on several thematic areas.
BHUTAN, supported by the US and CANADA, expressed support for a synthesis report for the workshops, while SAUDI ARABIA considered this premature.
SAUDI ARABIA said many Annex I countries had not shown leadership.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, called this package a “milestone” for the implementation of a new post-2020 climate regime.
Responding to SOUTH AFRICA, the EU indicated an additional 2% emission reduction achievement, if LULUCF were to be considered in its 2020 pledge under the Convention.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stated that progress e2 80 9chas been slow because of us, the parties, not because of the Co-Chairs.
IRAN opposed transmitting the text to SB-13.
  The LDC Expert Group (LEG) reported on its work (FCCC/SBI/2009/13).
The EIG expressed concern that parties can choose information to be communicated as a component of an NDC.
 In sub-paragraph 1(d)(iv) on a work plan and timetable on the allocation and control of emissions from international bunker fuels, the EU added a new sub-paragraph that the SBSTA, with the guidance of SBI, take into account ongoing work in governments and IGOs.
94 The US questioned whether sea level rise represented a \t\tdiscontinuity and called for focusing on what is new since the TAR.
SWITZERLAND suggested text on carbon pricing.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said it should apply to mitigation and MOI but that the procedures for each may differ, and that parties should individually and collectively increase ambition.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES (AOSIS), and Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), called for stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations below 350 parts per million (ppm) and limiting temperature increases to below 1.5ºC.
The G-77/CHINA called for an expert review of non-Annex I communications by non-Annex I Party experts.
The GAMBIA supported an integrated assessment of adaptation \t\tapproaches.
On incentivizing adaptation and creating enabling environments, BANGLADESH underlined the need to involve and incentivize the private sector and the US highlighted that recipient countries, not just donors, must play a role in providing incentives for adaptation.
JAPAN highlighted its Earth Simulator System, which, he said, can predict future climates and enhance understanding of adaptation needs.
On the way forward, the EU proposed an in-session workshop, submissions or an examination of best practices.
AOSIS noted that projections on sea-level rise reflected a precautionary approach and stressed the need to increase levels of ambition.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized that using actual emissions as a starting point more accurately reflects the costs countries face in meeting targets and avoids locking in current inequities in the Protocol.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized that it is premature to determine that there will be two phases.
The EU reiterated that his proposal provides flexibility through Annex B, which lists P&amp;Ms to be applied according to national circumstances.
Bahamas congratulated COP 21 for delivering a legally-binding agreement that addresses the needs of SIDS, and looked forward to advancing the WIM.
CANADA, JAPAN AUSTRALIA and AOSIS also supported the roster of experts.
The G-77/ CHINA stressed the need to negotiate the issues as a package and said the outcome should be a balanced set of decisions.
NEPAL sought to \t\taccelerate economic development with energy efficiency and hoped to \t\tattract investment for clean development.
BANGLADESH and others called for consideration of participation of indigenous peoples.
The EU noted that the guidelines are scheduled to be completed by COP-8, while the work on LULUCF under the CDM continues up until COP-9.
The G- 77/CHINA, with the PHILIPPINES and CHINA, expressed concern about: increasing emission trends among Annex II Parties; activities relating to financial resources and technology transfer; the lack of progress in the development of policies and measures; and gaps in reporting by Annex I Parties.
The EU said although the meeting would be considered as a failure, Parties had worked much more seriously than in any previous COP.
MAURITIUS, supported by MOROCCO and ZIMBABWE, welcomed AIJ contributions to capacity building in developing countries, if they adhere to national objectives, and asked the Secretariat to facilitate the initiation of AIJ projects to African countries.
The US \t\tproposed the use of more general terminology like 93climate change \t\tgoals, 94 rather than specifying 93stabilization and reduction of \t\tgreenhouse gas emmisions.
The approach laid out by the EU can be strengthened by placing these policies and measures within a legally-binding target and by development of specific performance targets.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a COP decision, as it would mark a clear path towards a stronger outcome at the next COP.
TURKEY supported integrating adaptation into all levels of planning.
INDIA said universal standards or best practices fall outside the scope of the Bali Action Plan.
Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that adaptation is critical for all developing countries and that funding must be new and additional to official development assistance (ODA), and country-driven rather than fund-driven.
SAUDI ARABIA sought a group on response measures and opposed consultations on common or “shared space” between the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
The EU rejected the notion that option A contains consequential and option B contains non-consequential amendments.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, reported that small island developing states are prepared to contribute to carbon neutrality, absolute reductions below base year and enhancing existing efforts.
VIET NAM and the US called for further discussion.
On P&amp;Ms, the EU proposed reference to the October 2001 workshop report, rather than to its terms of reference.
The US suggested that Parties distinguish between exporting and importing in their reporting, while TUVALU, for AOSIS, cautioned against approaches not accounting for products harvested in developing countries and transferred to developed countries.
In the morning, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to strengthen existing institutions, and include loss and damage in the agreement, among other issues.
On market-driven approaches, EL SALVADOR stressed the need to reflect the involvement of governments.
MOROCCO said that measures must respect country sovereignty and account for the impact on developing countries.
NEW ZEALAND said the Article 19 process could be the basis for a final appeal procedure.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol is essential for addressing climate change.
Noting that CERs are an important source for the Fund, NEW ZEALAND encouraged parties to take into consideration during discussions on eligibility, that sufficient demand for the CDM will provide financial resources for the Fund.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, called for continuing the Protocol’s key elements, including quantified and legally-binding objectives, the flexibility mechanisms and a transparent monitoring system.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, requested a placeholder for the definition of “climate finance.” BOLIVIA proposed defining a mechanism for the implementation of joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral sustainable management of forests as an alternative to REDD+.
NORWAY and the EU opposed a provision on share of proceeds in Articles 6 and 17 (Emissions Trading).
The US called for adding text on the carbon budget for a 2 c2 b0C goal to compare to the 1.5 c2 b0C goal.
THAILAND asked Parties to differentiate between luxury and survival emissions.
BENIN stressed the need to improve the geographical distribution of CDM projects, while NEW ZEALAND warned of difficulties in dictating geographical and sectoral distribution of projects.
The EU reiterated concerns about increasing greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation and called for guidelines compatible with the Protocol for emissions allocation methodologies.
NEW ZEALAND urged the development of a special consultative mechanism for business NGOs as they will play a vital role in implementation.
AUSTRALIA called for text on long-term cooperative action by all parties.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: an overview of the climate finance architecture; avoiding duplications; and assessing other sources of financing.
AUSTRALIA made reference to the climate finance ‘Roadmap to US$100 Billion.’ Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested reflecting Decision 1/CP.21 paragraphs 53 (on the existing collective mobilization goal) and 55 (information in parties’ communication on providing financial resources to developing countries and mobilizing climate finance).
MEXICO indicated his country\'s pledge to reduce emissions by 30% compared to business as usual by 2020 subject to financial and technological support.
NORWAY suggested addressing an adaptation global goal in the facilitated group on “objective” to achieve parity with the mitigation objective.
JAPAN noted “strong concerns” on, inter alia, mitigation and legal outcome.
He also drew attention to different interpretations of “country-driven.” CANADA said country-driven adaptation efforts speak to the importance of national governments, identifying and communicating their priorities as well as implementing actions.
Discussions on the G-77/CHINA proposals continued in the facilitated group on finance.
On the way forward, BRAZIL suggested the need for an APA agenda item on common timeframes.
The EU highlighted the Stern Review, stressed the need for long-term action where adaptation complements mitigation, and suggested exploring new strategies under the Montreal Action Plan.
94 The EU noted that a busy two \t\tyears lies ahead, and expressed committed to work towards a final \t\tagreement in Copenhagen in 2009.
JAMAICA thanked the African group for this offer and requested that it be recorded.
The EU and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for effective work programmes for 2009, and underscored the importance of the Article 9 review for Protocol parties.
The EU highlighted complexity added by lack of institutional capacity to the determination of potential consequences, with SAUDI ARABIA stating that this shifted the blame of consequences to developing countries.
The EU, opposed by Canada, Japan and Australia, emphasized the establishment of a consultative process to ensure continuity of information exchange.
SAINT LUCIA, ALGERIA, TUVALU, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and BOLIVIA underscored that access to the flexibility mechanisms, including Joint Implementation (JI) and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), would be difficult to agree to in the absence of a second commitment period.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a conversation on how to make the SBSTA more efficient.
AUSTRALIA said the flexibility mechanisms were to be open, market-based, transparent, cost effective and equitable; provide comprehensive coverage, including sinks; and be fungible.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that countries should be incentivized to contribute financial resources and that countries with economies in transition should be eligible to receive funds under certain conditions.
The US said that in cases where Parties had agreed to fulfill their commitments under Article 3 jointly and that there was a case of non-compliance with Articles 5 (methodological issues) and 7, the result set forth in Article 4.5 (individual responsibility to meet levels of emissions in the agreement) should apply.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted that parties are “past the stage of simple compilation” and suggested considering cross-cutting issues across the two AWGs through workshops.
TURKEY suggested that institutional structures should act as a bridge to financial mechanisms, highlighted the need for loss and damage mechanisms and stressed prioritization of early warning systems.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, noted preference for a net-net approach, with a cap on the use of LULUCF.
Describing offsetting as “a good deal for the atmosphere,” the EU, with Norway, proposed a technical workshop to quantify the impacts of the different mechanisms.
Brazil highlighted that they are working closely with the expert who helped them develop the proposal, noted a recent paper on the proposal in the context of BASIC and asked the Secretariat to make the paper available.
This statement was supported by Germany, the US, Samoa, Australia, Hungary, New Zealand, Canada, Norway, Japan, Argentina, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago (on behalf of AOSIS) and Equatorial Guinea.
SAUDI ARABIA said text was missing on transferability and fungibility.
The AFRICA GROUP recommended reformulating the Africa regional report to reflect COP decision 10/CP.5 (capacity building).
 AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the US and AUSTRALIA also called for speedy completion of the technical papers.
AUSTRIA noted that nuclear power is not an option for combating climate change.
Supported by the UK, he added that only eligibility issues would go to an enforcement process, not any issue related to the mechanisms.The WORLD WILDLIFE FUND explained that other issues relating to the mechanisms were a liability system, the existence of a ceiling as well as a post-verification approach.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), underscored, inter alia, the need for action on the adaptation framework for implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs), technology and capacity building programmes, and finance that is reliable and additional to official development assistance (ODA).
INDIA said equitable entitlement might imply payments by developed countries for future emissions.
MALTA noted her country e2 80 99s absolute emissions, and therefore mitigation potential, are small, and reported a decrease of 56% in emissions since 1990.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, requested clarification on the status of Monday’s event and stressed the need to reflect in the report that the “vast majority” of parties support the establishment of a forum on response measures.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the ADP text is party-driven and party-owned.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, said he could not accept the deletion of the preambular Principles, and CHINA commented that too many options had been eliminated from the text.
The Third Assessment Report (TAR) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was taken up by the SBSTA on Wednesday, 5 June, and subsequently addressed in a contact group co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Rawleston Moore (Barbados).
He also called for opportunities to enable LDCs and SIDS to embark on sustainable development pathways, and for “frank discussions” on medium- and long-term finance.
AOSIS emphasized that the item on loss and damage relates to adaptation, while response measures fall under the building block on mitigation.
They were divided over exact membership numbers, with the EU, SLOVENIA, the US and others favoring under 15 members while the G-77/CHINA called for 25 members.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, JAPAN and US, questioned the utility of inter-sessional consultations on the TAR prior to SBSTA-19.
The G-77/CHINA noted his intention to also propose language.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed satisfaction at the growing recognition of the need for clarity on rules relating to markets and LULUCF.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted the Convention’s existing review provisions and the agenda item on the second review of adequacy of Convention Articles 4.2(a) and (b), which has been held in abeyance for several years.
 \t\t\tRegarding aviation, the US said stress should be on mitigation \t\t\tpotential and not on emission trends.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored the need to increase resources to fight climate change, provide funding for implementation of development plans and develop direct and simplified access to finance especially for SIDS and LDCs.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, stressed coherence of action on adaptation under the Convention.
The US and CANADA urged a preliminary exchange of views at the current session.
BRAZIL underscored a flexible and comprehensive approach to adaptation.
The EU stressed that the text was balanced and reflected progress toward implementing the Protocol.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed referring to the findings.
She said parties had agreed to extend the LDC Expert Group’s (LEG) mandate for five years.
The US opposed the G-77/China proposal for a TTM since it would be difficult to agree on its terms of reference.
SWEDEN highlighted sector integration, sector responsibility and economic instruments as being central to FCCC implementation.
The EU requested to see the decision.
BOLIVIA made a presentation showing: Annex B parties’ individual reduction pledges; Annex B parties’ aggregate reductions; and Annex B parties’ aggregate reductions taking into account surplus AAUs and LULUCF credits.
On CCS, CANADA \t\tsupported EU proposals to address policy issues, including boundaries \t\tand remediation, followed by technical issues.
The G-77/CHINA said the outcome from SBI 36 should include conclusions on the work programme and further guidance for regional meetings, as well as an annex to the conclusions that would expedite discussions in Doha.
CANADA, with the EU, NORWAY and JAPAN, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that the SCCF support adaptation and mitigation activities.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at attempts to add new language that does not reflect the Convention, and called for finalizing Adaptation Fund negotiations and starting discussions on the global goal on adaptation.
The US argued that it was not possible to prejudge progress.
GEORGIA emphasized “equal treatment of transparency among parties” and clear accounting rules as important for building trust.
The G-77/CHINA and others said it was premature to decide a name before the content of the protocol.
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, said her group has made compromises and urged others to follow suit.
The US, with the UK, questioned the inclusion of food production in the overview chapter.
AOSIS supported insurance mechanisms.
 CHINA and the PHILIPPINES proposed retaining sub-item (a) as is.
JAPAN said attention should be paid to the scientific and technical aspects of loss and damage.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that it is impossible to avoid negative spillover effects on developing countries and that all developing countries must adapt to them.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, said that P&amp;Ms should be self-assessed.
 CANADA said delegates can only decide to seek an amendment or protocol when the nature and scope of commitments are developed.
ECUADOR suggested giving priority to methods for projecting emissions and for evaluating AIJ.
CHINA said discussions on developed and developing countries’ mitigation efforts should remain separate.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, supported a role for the COP/MOP in submitting questions
NEW ZEALAND questioned restricting the use of surplus AAUs to domestic use only and highlighted the importance of retaining incentives for over-achievement.
The EU, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and AUSTRIA highlighted an MCP’s potential to prevent disputes.
 BRAZIL invited international coordination to complete its inventory, noting that the most uncertainty in IPCC projections is in deforestation and that it has more than one-third of the world\'s tropical forests.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized the Group’s desire for legally binding targets from the AWG-KP in Copenhagen.
India endorsed the G-77 and China\'s statement and expressed concern about certain parts of the AOSIS proposal.
The PHILIPPINES called for ensuring pre- and post-2020 adaptation finance through quantitative goals.
The EU, GRENADA, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and VIET NAM, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested separate technical and political processes.
 \t\t \t\tThe G-77/CHINA called for a more \t\taction-oriented objective, and for taking a portfolio of approaches \t\tinstead of a purely sectoral approach.
Regarding allocation of questions, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by SAMOA, suggested that guidelines be formulated to aid allocation.
The US queried the status of the new paper and objected to the Chair\'s suggestion that no new items or categories should be added.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC requested a reference to Article 12.4 (assistance to developing countries) and Article 4.3 (agreed full costs for developing countries).
Parties then turned to the guidelines for review under Article 8, beginning with a textual proposal by the EU, Japan and Australia for the COP/MOP decision, deciding to start the annual review in the year following the submission of the report.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND opposed referencing remedies, with NEW ZEALAND stating that such reference is premature.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP and Belarus, noted that all Umbrella Group members are willing to take on further commitments in the post-2012 period, as reflected in the annex to the Copenhagen Accord.
She highlighted that an “empty” adaptation framework would not be acceptable to AOSIS and questioned opposition to a mechanism for loss and damage.
The US, EU, AUSTRALIA and RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested deciding on the exact date for submitting the sixth national communication at a later stage, pending the outcome of AWG-LCA discussions.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, and the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed that the group’s mandate is to continue clarifying mitigation pledges by developing country parties, which is vital to build confidence and trust and to identify practical solutions for moving forward.
CANADA emphasized the need for discussions on cross-cutting issues relating to both adaptation and mitigation.
MEXICO said the meeting’s report should reflect what actually happened in Cancun.
The EU stressed the need for progress under the AWG-LCA, and JAPAN called for discussing overarching issues in an appropriate setting.
Singapore, opposed by the LDCs, suggested deleting “scaling-up” of adaptation action, and the EU suggested replacing it with “enhancing.” Many preferred the original formulation.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and the BAHAMAS, among others, urged requesting the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement.
Throughout discussions, views remained polarized among parties such as Saudi Arabia, Norway, the EU, Japan and others who supported including CCS under the CDM and Jamaica, Venezuela, Micronesia and Brazil who, while noting the potential of CCS maintained that the technology has not been fully tested or proven, but could be considered at a later stage.
BRAZIL described the FCCC as an exercise in burden sharing, recognizing differentiated responsibilities between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
The EU, Uganda, for the LDCs, and others stressed that a sense of urgency to undertake enhanced action on financing for mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer should be stated clearly, as well as the need to prioritize support for vulnerable developing countries.
SWITZERLAND and JAPAN highlighted existing national reviews on compliance.
Stating that the procedural discussion was premature, AUSTRALIA, supported by several Parties, proposed discussing the substantive issues before addressing the structure of the decision.
INDIA underscored the right to bring options not addressed in the non-paper back to the table.
UGANDA proposed a formulation referring to “appropriate mechanisms, such as national communications.” Informal consultations will continue.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for an agreement consistent with science and a long-term decarbonization goal, and achieving carbon neutrality by mid-century.
JAPAN and SAMOA referred to their respective proposals for a compliance system and said that such an appeal would be available.
ef bf bd AOSIS noted that \t\texchanges of ideas will help post-2012 discussions.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the linkages between agenda items and asked for a non-prescriptive Co-Chairs’ note to help the negotiations progress.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that SBSTA should work immediately on national communications and contributions to the Berlin Mandate process.
TUVALU stated that the Chair’s revised proposal on Annex I parties’ further commitments (FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/CRP.4/Rev.4) is not appropriate as a basis for further work and emphasized that the AWG-KP negotiations should be undertaken only by those parties who intend to continue to participate in the Kyoto Protocol.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA called for also addressing land-based accounting.
CHINA questioned the value of the legal issues discussions, observing that based on Annex I parties’ previous statements in negotiations, they do not appear eager to continue the Kyoto Protocol at all.
On the CDM, the EU explained that demand for CDM projects and emission reduction credits will continue in Europe, regardless of a second commitment period, and suggested that discussions be more constructively framed as striving for “smooth continuity” in the post-2012 regime, rather than emphasizing the gap between commitment periods.
 Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) will facilitate informal consultations.
Co-Facilitators Edna Molewa (South Africa) and Ed Davey (UK) called on parties to discuss how to move towards an articulated vision for climate finance.
The AFRICAN GROUP underscored the need to involve local communities in the design and execution of such projects.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION also urged further work, particularly with other international organizations.
CHINA, BOTSWANA, BOLIVIA, PAKISTAN and others also stressed the AWG-KP’s mandate and called for a simple amendment text.
The EU proposed establishing an international process for the consideration of INDCs from the first quarter of 2015, which would be related to mitigation INDCs only.
The EU said operational entities should perform certification and verification, which is dependent on monitoring.
 c2 a0 On this item and the item on LDCs, CHINA drew attention to the annotated agenda (FCCC/SBI/2018/1), which indicates that the outcomes of work at SB 48 will be forwarded to COP 24.
The EU, supported by Germany, Switzerland and Canada, proposed a working group to address budgetary matters and asked that it review the 1995 and 1996/97 budgets.
CHILE said that transport \t\thad not been sufficiently addressed during the workshop.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for coordination and consistency with other agreements, such as ICAO’s Carbon Offset and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, and suggested dialogues in the form of workshops or contact groups.
The US, Austria, and others, however, cautioned against the risks of exposing the IPCC expert meetings in the media.
 \t\tOn forestry issues, NORWAY supported New Zealand 92s initiative to \t\testablish a separate working group for considering a new protocol or \t\tother legal instrument on deforestation in developing countries.
Richard Bradley (US) conducted consultations on draft SBSTA conclusions and a draft COP decision.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted that the Review should assess the implementation of commitments under the Convention, and consider progress on mitigation and adaptation, as well as the scope of the long-term global goal.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Barbados, for AOSIS, and others, said that facilitating and matching mechanisms did not provide financing.
The US said there are many types of international cooperation, and stressed the role of international technology partnerships.
INDIA stated that the dialogue should address how equity, sustainable development and poverty eradication efforts are considered in mitigation efforts.
TUVALU and INDIA stressed the importance of impact assessments.
NIGERIA said the African Group supported the Chair\'s paper.
The US stressed that all the leaders in the room had agreed to the Accord and said he would be curious to know how countries who were present in the room but contest the agreement understood language indicating that parties “have agreed.”
SOUTH AFRICA proposed an overarching decision covering both the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP negotiating tracks that would capture the elements of a complete climate change package, give parties assurance that they are working towards a two-track outcome and anchor elements under both tracks where progress has been made.
CHINA urged further guidance to strengthen the Technology Mechanism, noting such guidance is complementary to anchoring the mechanism in the TEC and CTCN.
The EU suggested that the Board should: publish the time taken by the Board to undergo key stages of the project cycle; prioritize top-down development of methodologies using default values whenever possible; and enable the use of standardized baselines and additionality benchmarks.
The US suggested addressing deliverables and, with the European Union (EU), highlighted the GCF’s initial capitalization of US$9.7 billion prior to Lima.
On long-term cooperation, Slovenia, for the EU, said parties should agree on conclusions at this session.
 CANADA noted that economic change in energy sources has occurred over the past century and will continue regardless of a protocol.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and NORWAY, stressed the need for predictable and adequate funding levels.
GHANA requested the group divide issues into three tables to separate out the remaining “hard” issues.
CHINA, INDIA and the PHILIPPINES stressed the urgency of setting mid-term emission reduction targets for developed countries.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, said the objective of the SCCF is to assist developing countries to integrate climate change factors into national sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies, and their implementation.
CHINA said no Party had achieved transparency, comparability, and consistency, and asked whether is it fair to hold developing countries to standards others have not met.
Bolivia, for ALBA, reminded that work under APA should reflect the comprehensive vision of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for further clarification in defining international bunker fuels.
The G-77/CHINA said \t\twork should not be duplicated, but opposed formal linkages.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the G-77/CHINA 92s inability to participate fully in discussions, and added that text should be open for comment later on.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, expressed concern over the lack of funding for this meeting, which limited the participation of developing countries and could be detrimental to the process itself.
NEW ZEALAND said that adaptation is a \t\tsub-element of sustainable development in developed countries.
The EU noted interlinkages with other agenda items including submissions on strategy approaches and roadmaps.
ICELAND supported efforts to globalize the carbon market.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of considering cross-cutting elements and the integration of adaptation and mitigation.
SAUDI ARABIA urged progress on implementation of Article 2.3, while the EU said issues related to this article have already been addressed in earlier decisions.
Questions addressed: the difference between the German and the EU targets; FiT policies; and emissions from the waste and shipping sectors.
JAPAN said Parties should be able to account for stock changes in all carbon pools, but should decide themselves which pools to include.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the party-driven nature of the process, said only party proposals should be considered, and requested chairs’ summaries of the contact group discussions.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs and TURKEY called for mentioning how science guides the agreement.
CANADA and NEW ZEALAND said existing institutions should continue.
China, for the G-77/China, with many developing countries, called for a capacity-building body or center to, inter alia: provide a more structured and holistic approach to capacity building; analyze gaps in, and support implementation of, activities; monitor implementation; increase coherence and synergies among activities; publicize financing opportunities; assist the LDCs in building climate resilience; and support country-driven actions.
The EU highlighted specific tasks in the AWG-LCA’s mandate, saying that no decision on market approaches would mean there is no process to consider the issue after Doha.
The EU called for addressing each element of 2bis under its substantive home.
The G-77/CHINA, COLOMBIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, MICRONESIA, UZBEKISTAN, INDIA and others said Annex I countries should communicate GHG emission limitations and their commitments concerning financial resources and technology transfer.
On Friday, 6 June, the G-77/China and Tuvalu said the implementation of the guidelines will require additional financial resources and capacity building, and, with the EU, emphasized the need to focus on vulnerability and adaptation, and greenhouse gas inventories.
The EU is on course to return CO2 emissions to 1990 levels by 2000.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BELARUS \t\temphasized that different economic circumstances must be taken into \t\taccount when deciding on targets.
Belize, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said his group was working toward embedding their proposals within those of the G-77/China.
CHINA said the guidelines for the biennial update report should be a sub-set of the current national communication guidelines and, with many developing countries, emphasized that biennial update report content should be part of national communications and avoid duplication.
CHINA said it was e2 80 9cimperative e2 80 9d to define in Lima a roadmap to mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020.
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.4.InformalNote), ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) explain that, as mandated by ADP 2-9, they have prepared an additional tool for ADP 2-10, annexed to the scenario note, which includes a “fully streamlined, consolidated, clear and concise version of the GNT” that presents clear options and does not omit or delete any option or position of parties.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, suggested that work on the NWP and reform of the CDM could be completed at this meeting.
CHINA explained that developed countries have “over-occupied” most of the existing atmospheric space through their cumulative emissions, transferring responsibility onto developing countries and creating a new form of inequality.
The SBI addressed: Annex I national communications; the financial mechanism; capacity-building; a request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova (CACAM) regarding their status under the UNFCCC; administrative and financial matters; a proposal by Croatia on land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF); and administrative and financial matters.
SWITZERLAND and BELGIUM recommended exploring synergies with activities taken under UNFCCC Article 6 (education, training and public awareness).
NICARAGUA supported NORWAY’s proposal and uniform reporting requirements.
 Regarding the draft decision on Annex I communications, POLAND sought clarification on the SBI’s role in dealing with Parties with economies in transition.
The EU highlighted work on MRV by Germany and South Africa.
However, with secret balloting and the large roster of excellent candidates, hazarding a guess as to who might win was not easy, and the fact that there were three European candidates and one US candidate perhaps heralded a potentially split vote among developed countries.
The G-77/China, \t\tsupported by some SIDS and others, supported establishing a group of \t\texperts, however the EU, US and others questioned the added value of \t\tsuch a group.
However, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said they are cumbersome and, with the EU, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported their revision.
Senegal, for the LDCs, with the Philippines, thanked the EU for their positive spirit that had allowed capacity building to be taken up at a higher level.
The VISEGRAD GROUP supported a quantified ceiling on the use of mechanisms, with preferential projects under Joint Implementation.
On the conclusions relating to the IPCC Third Assessment Report (TAR), SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT proposed deferring the issue to SBSTA-16.
On continuing to apply the draft rules of procedure, with the exception of rule 42 on voting, opposed by PAPUA NEW GUINEA during the opening plenary, COP President Hedegaard said she would continue informal consultations and report back at a later meeting.
The US drew attention to areas where the text moves away from the Copenhagen Accord, and urged a legally-binding outcome representing all parties.
The US noted that elements are not listed in order of priority.
On institutional arrangements, CANADA said “function should come before form,” highlighting a country-driven approach that attends to the most vulnerable and promotes integration of adaptation into national strategies, including development strategies.
CHILE noted the potential for technology transfers through the CDM.
CHINA and BRAZIL underscored the importance of fulfilling the mandate from COP 17 to develop methodologies for reporting financial information with a view to recommending a decision to COP 20.
The EU also suggested that the Chair develop a protocol or another legal instrument by 1 June, if AGBM does not complete this work by the end of the week.
The EU and JAPAN called for an efficient process, with NORWAY proposing that workshops be held immediately prior to sessions of the subsidiary bodies.
The US said that the text on a shared vision was different from text on other building blocks in the sense that it is not operational but political text.
On  , AOSIS, the LDCs and Colombia supported retaining the option in the context of COP/MOP decisions.
The US and others noted the need for further discussions on the nomination committee and Co-Chair Odingo supported its use.
The EIG requested clarity on how the co-chairs will treat the group’s proposal to have a clear call for the next APA session to be focused on substance.
JAPAN said that rules for sinks under the CDM should not be unnecessarily restrictive, and proposed that definitions and modalities should be agreed as a package at COP-9.
ARGENTINA noted successful measures undertaken by the UK and Germany to reduce emissions and highlighted continuing emissions increases in the US.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested that: the term “NDCs” refers to mitigation; the term “contributions” does not apply to adaptation; and a parallel timing process for MOI is needed.
Brazil, Argentina, India, Cuba, Venezuela and China expressed support for continuing discussions at SBSTA 38 while the US, with Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Russia, the EU and Colombia, supported finding common ground in Doha, especially on MRV.
She also stressed \t\tthat the EU is ready to start discussions under Article 3.9 (future \t\tcommitments).
KUWAIT \t\twelcomed discussions on the second commitment period, and said these \t\tshould be guided by Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies \t\tand measures) and 3.14 (minimization of adverse effects).
SAUDI ARABIA stated that special attention is needed for the public and private sourcing of finance.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ALGERIA, CHINA and INDIA, opposed by CANADA, called for a e2 80 9cNAMA-like e2 80 9d registry.
The EU highlighted the link between this issue and limited crediting during the first commitment period.
AUSTRALIA urged that such analysis not delay research on temperature and sea level rise.
NORWAY highlighted the difficulty of “selling financing” to donors and said a better perception of good governance and improved cost analyses for adaptation in developing countries would simplify this task.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION insisted on the removal of limitations on Parties 92 ability to use the mechanisms.
The US said paragraph 88 could be in the transparency section of the Geneva text.
JAPAN noted a lack of common understanding on what is meant by spillover effects and response measures, and whether they actually exist.
The decision on further guidance for the \t\toperation of the LDC Fund has bracketed text instructing the LDC Fund to \t\tstart funding other elements of the LDC work programme.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, stated that the TAPs should be open-ended.
Beckles acknowledged the importance of \t\tpartnerships to promote sustainable development in SIDS, and noted some \t\tactivities carried out by her country to mitigate greenhouse gas \t\temissions, including: increasing forest cover; using alternative fuel \t\tand new technology with lower greenhouse gas emissions; and moving \t\ttowards cleaner production technology and energy efficiency practices.
AOSIS called for a new adaptation fund under the \t\tConvention.
AUSTRALIA supported retaining the reference, saying its inclusion would not imply changing the current rules but rather provide guidance to facilitators.
Responding to Tuvalu’s request to clarify their views regarding the Protocol’s future, the EU explained that the Protocol’s architecture has many elements that can be taken forward.
INDIA said parties should consider adjustments based, inter alia, on historic responsibilities and equitable sharing of the global carbon budget.
CHINA \t\tquestioned a paragraph quoted from the TAR.
The EU said the NAMA registry would help to coordinate actions with support, and also cover planning and elaboration.
The EU \t\tsaid the draft lacked vision.
CHINA \t\tcommented on uncertainties in using global climate models.
Supported by SRI LANKA, he said developing country Parties will do what they can to use technology and report, but will not undertake mitigation measures until they have taken adequate adaptation measures.
The EU underscored the need to speed up the conclusion of the AWG-LCA and supported the COP President’s call for the AWG-LCA Chair to finish the group’s work on Thurday night.
SWITZERLAND said that there was no use of forming panels only to disband them later and suggested that discussion on TAPs could be conducted in parallel with SBI 1.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, stated his expectation that Co-Facilitators would publish new iterations of informal notes on all items by the end of SB 48, and suggested that all items be suspended, allowing work to be continued without the need to discuss the agenda at the next session.
BOLIVIA said discussions should focus on reducing the gap between pledges and what is required.
China, with the US, expressed preference for a single worldwide accreditation body.
AUSTRALIA said comprehensive indexing and cross-referencing of products enhances the utility of the Working Group reports and underlined the value of establishing an electronic search facility.
Tuvalu, on behalf of the Alliance of Small \t\tIsland States (AOSIS), highlighted adaptation and the needs of SIDS.
Supported by HUNGARY, the US, CANADA, the EU, POLAND, SLOVENIA, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, and JAPAN, he introduced a draft text that, inter alia: notes Annex I Party commitments through 2014; considers that future Annex I commitments beyond that date should comprise the widest possible participation in binding action; recognizes the dependence of inception of non-Annex I Parties’ legally binding emissions limitations commitments on Annex I Parties\' implementation, particularly of Kyoto Protocol QELROs; agrees there should be further QELROs for Annex I Parties and “quantified emission limitation objectives” for other Parties, except least developed countries; and establishes a process to set the commitments, to be concluded by 2002.
Much of the discussion centered on a proposal from the EU for a 15% cut in a "basket" of three greenhouse gases (GHG) by the year 2010 compared to 1990 emission levels.
Katherine Vaughn (Australia) and Rence Sore (Solomon Islands) co-chaired a contact group on the LDC Fund.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stressed, among others, that cooperative approaches could be an additional source of financial resources to facilitate the achievement of NDCs.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BURKINA FASO, said SBSTA should task the IPCC to examine, inter alia, methods for distinguishing natural and anthropogenic sinks, the role of carbon stocks and wood products, definitions of eligible land uses and the role of sinks in biodiversity protection.
On translating the TEP into effective actions on the ground, the US, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, said the TEP should evolve, and be regularly reviewed and improved.
Poland said they have decoupled economic growth from GHG emissions, and are currently more than 30% below 1988 emission levels, but need to increase energy efficiency to match the EU’s efficiency levels.
The UK agreed that the bodies are parallel, but that Article 9 of the Convention states that the SBSTA was established to provide advice to the COP and, as appropriate, its other subsidiary bodies.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES sought clarification on the purpose of using the term, "in or under the Protocol."
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said the AWG-LCA should benefit from maximum flexibility in Barcelona in order to finish its work before Copenhagen.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed appreciation for the contributions made by donors to the Adaptation Fund and said the group looks forward to ensuring the continuity of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
The EU questioned the value of a common accounting framework if nobody would commit to it and called for a realistic conversation about the second commitment period, given that three parties have stated their intention not to inscribe their pledges as QELROs in Annex B.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for THE COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), underscored the need for coordinated public and private finance for REDD+ implementation.
The EU called for clarity on parties’ pledges, including on a starting point and the length of the commitment period, which are prerequisites for determining QELROs.
Panama, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CFRN), called for clear rules on transparency and market mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND opposed any reinterpretation of the Warsaw decision on loss and damage.
COLOMBIA cautioned that NAMAs should not replace the CDM.
At its second and third meetings, the Council approved and allocated US$14 million to a project preparation and development facility.
LUXEMBOURG emphasized that public finance at the national and local levels has a vital role to play in mobilizing private investment.
In relation to sectors/source categories, SWITZERLAND called for consideration of bunker fuels.
AUSTRALIA highlighted that temperature adjustments are based on cyclical fluxes like other climatic events and, therefore, should follow the same conceptual approach.
The outputs of the Task Force are: the maintenance of the IPCC Data Distribution Centre managed by the Climatic Research Unit in the UK, and the Deutsches Klimarechenzentrum in Germany; guidance material on the use of scenario data for impact and adaptation assessments; and the publication of inventories.
Instead, the EU preferred to \t\tseek alternative approaches to crediting, focused on carbon reductions \t\tarising from the use of renewable fuel sources.
 \t\tSeveral developing countries, including Chile and Peru, raised concerns \t\tover the Board 92s proposal to levy US$0.20 per CER to cover its \t\tadministrative expenses and called for differentiation.
On the  , the EU and New Zealand emphasized that even in the absence of a second commitment period, demand for carbon credits will continue, with the EU highlighting its legislation to ensure the continuity of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme beyond 2012.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need for coherent rules across tracks, noting that “a managed forest is a managed forest” regardless of whether parties take commitments under the Kyoto Protocol or under a broader climate regime.
CHINA suggested a ten-year cycle focusing on enhanced ambition in 2020-2030 to build trust, during which: developed countries take the lead on emission reduction and provide MOI to developing countries; and developing countries follow that leadership, using MOI to increase their level of ambition in mitigation and adaptation.
AUSTRALIA emphasized the need to discuss the other proposed amendments in the Chair’s text.
The EU proposed discussing this issue under existing \t\t\tagenda items and NORWAY identified “adjustment” procedures similar \t\t\tto those developed in the context of the Convention on Long-range \t\t\tTransboundary Air Pollution as a possible solution.
AILAC emphasized the agreement should include, inter alia, principles, a long-term temperature goal and commitments.
SOUTH AFRICA recommended using science as the basis for determining Annex I countries’ aggregate level of ambition, suggested a 40% reduction from 1990 levels by 2020 as the aggregate target and proposed then addressing issues of feasibility, practicality and how to allocate individual targets.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the preamble of the text on a shared vision should set out the “bigger picture,” including concepts such as historical responsibility, justice, equity and burden sharing, as well as the effective implementation of developed countries’ commitments.
The US supported a work programme on agriculture, but requested deletion of text referring directly to trade-related issues.
 CHINA identified the SBI, not the AWG-LCA, as the appropriate body to consider reporting guidelines, and said undertaking planning activities should not be a pre-condition for seeking financial support for NAMAs.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said her country anticipates a significant contribution from LULUCF in the next commitment period, noting their pledged reduction of 25% with LULUCF or 15% without LULUCF.
INDONESIA stressed that there should be no backsliding.
The EU cautioned against creating a separate disaster fund for climate-related events.
 The US urged alternate proposals to those already tabled, all of which present a common target met by individual countries on an annual basis.
Citing the UNEP report, BOLIVIA noted that large mitigation potential exists in different sectors, but will require means of implementation.
SWITZERLAND opposed.
He welcomed the support for the AOSIS protocol and looked forward to hearing alternative protocols.
The US stressed that mandatory outcomes would apply automatically.
SWITZERLAND said financing is a “core and ongoing issue” that cannot be concluded in Doha, and that a COP decision is needed to define how to continue working on it.
NORWAY said that contribution from sinks should be limited in the first commitment period.
COSTA RICA noted that a shared vision should be simple but profound in establishing the path forward, and CHILE said that it should communicate the parties’ political will to the public.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the panels should have different structures, with TAP-T as the smaller, ad hoc body and TAP-M as the larger body that draws from other fora.
A common EIT position paper was not possible due to limited time.
The PHILIPPINES said any redefinition of CBDR must be treated carefully and be morally grounded.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized that the TAR provides a "scientific basis of a global nature" applicable to all Parties.
In the context of referencing the Convention, the EU preferred referencing only the Article numbers, or alternatively, using the exact wording of the Convention.
Yugoslavia, opposed by the EU, said it could not support Croatia 92s proposal.
On the relationship between \t\t\tsustainable development and climate change, the US questioned a \t\t\tlikelihood statement on climate change impeding achievement of the \t\t\tMillennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for \t\tagreement on a shared vision to preserve islands and their people as a \t\tpriority, taking into consideration their low adaptive capacity.
The EU suggested focusing first on content, then on the nature of the outcome.
The G-77/China underlined gaps in the implementation of the Convention, opposed by some developed countries, including the US and Australia.
CANADA and the US said the G-77/China proposal changes the scope of the process, by referring to the entire Convention rather than the Parties in question.
The EU and JAPAN emphasized the importance of private \t\tsector involvement.
The US said it could support this, but that a COW should not substitute for Japan 92s proposal for a facilitator.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the importance of completing work on cooperative approaches in order to send a signal to the private sector to shift investments.
POLAND observed that a review of the process could explain why some countries were excluded and resolve some of the concerns of the G-77/CHINA.
NEW ZEALAND distributed a non-paper to facilitate work.
Supported by the US, China, and Belgium, Saudi Arabia called for a general statement in the SPM summarizing the state of knowledge on 1.5 c2 b0C and highlighting existing knowledge gaps.
EGYPT said the IPCC should continue to assess impacts on vulnerable regions.
Noting the different objectives of CDM and JI, JAPAN and POLAND argued against additional requirements on JI.
New Zealand said the draft text only notes the proposals by Germany and AOSIS, and does not indicate agreement.
The EU expressed its wish for more NGO involvement and called for prompt attention to consultation mechanisms.
The PHILIPPINES, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, outlined benchmarks for success in Doha, including: Annex I parties to the Kyoto Protocol committing to ambitious QELROs to be provisionally applied from 1 January 2013; Annex I countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol taking on comparable and ambitions emission reduction commitments; and the Kyoto Protocol compliance mechanism applying in the second commitment period.
JAPAN supported further simplifying the additionality test for small-scale projects rather than exempting additionality.
The NETHERLANDS cautioned that associating the committee too closely with the SBI would hamper its freedom of movement.
In October 1997, as AGBM- 8 began, US President Bill Clinton included a call for "meaningful participation" by developing countries in the negotiating position he announced in Washington.
NORWAY supported diffusion of existing best available technologies in the short term, and work to develop and deploy new technologies in the longer term.
Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, the US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
 AUSTRALIA cautioned that the potential to limit GHG emissions without seriously undermining economic growth is limited.
BOLIVIA, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored that the language should reflect a “fulfillment of the commitments of developed countries,” rather than “contributions.”
The conclusions also note that the GEF has approved a Project Preparation and Development Facility grant of US $350,000 for the development of a full proposal.
On flexibility of the future framework, JAPAN emphasized the need to balance broader participation through inclusion of initiatives outside the UNFCCC, and environmental effectiveness.
FIJI, SEYCHELLES and others urged \t\tkeeping warming as far below 2 b0C as possible.
 This item (FCCC/TP/2016/2) was first taken up by the SBI plenary on Monday, 16 May, and was subsequently discussed in informal consultations co-facilitated by Martin Hession (EU) and Winfred Lichuma (Kenya).
With Australia, for the Umbrella Group, he entertained the idea of a new text from the ADP Co-Chairs.
NORWAY, supported by AUSTRALIA and the EU, suggested common accounting rules for all parties, opposed by BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and KENYA.
The EU said this issue would be addressed by the SBI.
INDIA said adaptation and mitigation should be addressed separately and, with NIGERIA, stressed the Synthesis Report 92s importance, particularly for developing countries.
He cited the EU’s proposed goals as an ambitious example for differentiation and cautioned that flexible instruments, such as joint implementation, are not a replacement for differentiation.
SAUDI ARABIA stated that several delegations have accepted proposals that they did not completely support in order to avoid using brackets.
China’s proposal to delete the specific reference to black carbon was met with strong opposition from the US, UK, Austria and Canada.
The EU encouraged parties to pledge sufficient funding to the JISC.
Regarding timeframes, the US said they should not be aspirational deadlines but should be fixed and firm.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed acknowledging, in line with the IPCC SYR, that effective adaptation and mitigation responses will depend on policies and measures across multiple scales.
The US said he was persuaded by the Canadian and Swiss concerns.
PERU specified negative impacts.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said developing countries can take on NAMAs commensurate with their abilities and national circumstances.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the fourth review of the financial mechanism and requested an update on operationalization of the Adaptation Fund.
 Pasha Carruthers, Cook Islands, identified the socioeconomic information needs of SIDS, including: consideration of the unique conditions of SIDS in scenarios; more integrated and analyzed data made available in a user-friendly format; cost-benefits of response measures; addressing limited expertise through preparing information packages; and including stakeholders’ perspectives.
Brazil, supported by Argentina, South Africa and others, and opposed by the US and Saudi Arabia, proposed to host an expert meeting, with a view to develop a technical paper.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a new and effective global climate regime and a conversation on the contribution of the Kyoto Protocol to that system.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that SBSTA not go beyond its mandate, and stay within the context of UNFCCC Article 4 (commitments).
The EU suggested that the legal and technical review carried out by the Secretariat as a result of delays in the intergovernmental process had not taken into account the document on guidance to the Fund and, with the US, Japan, and Norway, said developing guidance to the Fund should be considered at COP-8.
She said they have been in contact with the UN Foundation that can conduct fundraising in the US but there would be charges involved.
 \t\tOn capacity building for economies in transition \t\t(FCCC/SBI/2007/18 and MISC.9), the EU acknowledged challenges for EITs \t\tas they prepare for the first commitment period.
Noting that agriculture and forestry could offset 10-25% of his country’s current emissions, the US stressed the importance of including agriculture in the climate regime.
 \t\t\tThe US questioned reference to “high agreement, much evidence,” \t\t\tsuggesting it might not be appropriate given the low number of \t\t\tscenarios being assessed.
JAPAN stressed that the joint submission stems from parties representing different views.
The US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA said Decision 3/CP.3, which specified the mandate of the contact group, did not require specific consideration of Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, submitted text to elaborate the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage, proposing, inter alia: further developing the modalities and procedures for the mechanism’s operation; involving existing bodies and expert groups under the Convention, as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the Convention; and considering relevant precedents under international law.
The US, supported by NORWAY, emphasized that reporting and review are an opportunity to build capacity.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for: initiating work on a new quantified finance goal; reaching a decision on the Adaptation Fund; defining loss and damage; and completing the design of the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue by COP 23.
 \t\tThe EU, opposed by the G-77/China, also \t\tproposed text requesting non-Annex I Parties to submit funding proposals \t\tfor national communications even in advance of substantial completion of \t\tprevious national communications, but not later than one year after the \t\tsubmission of their previous national communications.
On unilateral trade measures, the US clarified their interpretation of the wording “of concern” to mean the party that raises the issue.
FRANCE, BELGIUM, and Chair Pachauri spoke against the release of \t\tany products prior to IPCC approval.
AUSTRIA, on behalf of the EU, said the question of broadening commitments in the long term is necessary and unavoidable.
CANADA, Chair of the drafting group, reported that Parties agreed the MCP can be triggered by: a Party with respect to its own implementation; a group of Parties with respect to their own implementation; a Party or group of Parties with respect to implementation by another Party or group of Parties; and/or the Conference of the Parties.
They also recognized the commitments by developed countries to provide US$30 billion of fast-start finance in 2010-2012, and to jointly mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020.
New Zealand and the EU said this might duplicate the work of the SBI in reviewing national communications and might infringe on parties’ sovereign rights.
Guatemala, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), stressed that adaptation continues to be a priority for the region and also highlighted the importance of measuring loss and damage.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, ARGENTINA and others eventually agreed to CHINA’s proposal to request the CDM Executive Board to simply enhance objectivity in the determination of emission baselines.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that the G-77/China proposal intends to contribute towards assessing the progress towards the 2020 finance objective.
Observing that this meeting began in the aftermath of one of the worst hurricane seasons in the Caribbean, Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern that the urgency that led to the Paris Agreement “has already begun to fade.”
TURKEY noted that all countries should contribute to solving the climate change problem in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and without jeopardizing sustainable development.
SAUDI ARABIA said agreement on rule 22 (election of officers) is also pending.
On a paragraph on the ADP producing the text of the 2015 agreement, elaborating any related decisions, for adoption by COP 21, and identifying the need for additional decisions at subsequent COP sessions, the EU welcomed the Co-Chairs’ text.
MICRONESIA proposed language reflecting recent scientific findings and appropriate numbers for Annex I emission reductions.
The organizations included: the US EPA, OECD, UNEP, IPCC, World Bank, IMF, FAO, US Department of Energy, IIASA, Carnegie Mellon, Oxford Consulting, the Brookings Institute, Alliance to Save Energy, relevant research institutes at Stanford, Yale, MIT and Harvard, EDF and the NRDC.
SUDAN said the forum would also provide a platform for operationalizing what is reported in national communications.
Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed putting the long-term temperature goal at the heart of the agreement.
SAUDI ARABIA, OMAN, KUWAIT, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (UAE), VENEZUELA, IRAN, NIGERIA and AUSTRALIA thought it would be premature to make recommendations, citing a lack of certainty in the SAR data.
 Venezuela said it would help all parties to “feel a part...of the solutions provided in Cancun.” Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored milestones related to: SBI’s extension of the LEG’s consideration of matters related to LDCs, capacity building, and technology transfer and the GCF.
The US also \t\t\tsaid text was needed noting the socioeconomic effects in the \t\t\trelationships between food productivity and hunger.
AOSIS said a credible outcome in Durban must consist of: a second commitment period of no longer than five years; ratifiable amendments to the Protocol and its Annex B; binding commitments in the form of QELROs; closing loopholes in LULUCF accounting rules; and increased mitigation ambitions by Annex I Parties.
Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada, for AOSIS, called on all countries to work together to ensure that the Copenhagen outcomes fulfill the hopes and aspirations of millions of people “depending on us to do the right thing to help them stay alive.” He stressed that all countries must take “strong measures” to achieve needed emission reductions to achieve the goal of limiting temperature increase to well below 1.5°C and atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations to below 350 ppm, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested information on adaptation and loss and damage would be useful, and cautioned against “negotiating a prescriptive approach to equity” as an input.
CHINA supported strengthening implementation of the \t\tConvention and Protocol, called on industrialized countries to meet \t\ttheir commitments, and outlined significant action in China.
• invite developed country parties to further contribute to the LDC Fund and SCCF; and
INDONESIA suggested that bilateral and multilateral initiatives focus on strengthening existing activities, filling gaps and avoiding duplication, as well as enhancing stakeholders’ capacities at the national level.
The Workshop was organized and hosted by AOSIS and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, suggested new headings on information related to transfer of technology and additional financial resources, and highlighted their textual proposal on information on implementation of Protocol Article 3.14.
Mali, speaking for the LDCs, hoped that developing countries, and especially LDCs, would benefit from meaningful assistance.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stressed the need to adopt the PCCB terms of reference and prioritize the Committee’s work in 2017, and emphasized transparency as a critical pillar of the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
The G-77/ CHINA, opposed by the US, urged that the adaptation fund draw from all three mechanisms.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested further work on periodic assessments of institutional arrangements through COP decisions.
The US suggested adding a sixth topic in the content section that identifies robust findings, key uncertainties and research needs.
TUVALU and ERITREA noted problems in the communication process between the financial mechanism and the implementing agencies.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA responded that a political decision would have to be taken on the degree to which the principle of supplementarity could be relaxed.
On REDD+, CARICOM supported anchoring agreed COP decisions on REDD+ in the agreement.
However, the EU, the US and the UK did not want to accord "amendment" status to the G-77 proposals since there had been no substantive debate.
The EU stands ready to take a constructive role as called for in the Declaration.
Howard Larsen (New Zealand) served as Rapporteur following a suggestion by the US that the Secretariat should not undertake the position to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN queried a proposal by the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA to bracket reference to "other interested Parties."
JAPAN noted that IMO’s decision on technical cooperation states that parties are “cognizant” of CDBR and opposed applying CBDR to ships because of their complex legal administration.
The EU stated that they now strongly supported the establishment of the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund.
UGANDA, with CHILE, proposed developing a plan of action.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for a forward-looking dimension to enable maximizing ambition.
Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), emphasized the need for improved predictability of financial flows through addressing ex ante information, and highlighted loss and damage as a critical component of the global response to climate change.
The EU said the workshop should help understanding the “apparent gaps” in clarity.
In October 1997, as AGBM-8 began, US President Bill Clinton called for "meaningful participation" by developing countries in the negotiating position he announced in Washington.
The US added national communications under FCCC Article 12 to information sources.
  Keynote speakers urged: directing support toward nations most at risk; delivering on developed countries’ US$100 billion by 2020 annual commitment; and ensuring that multilateral development banks quadruple lending for sustainable, resilient infrastructure in the next ten years.
The US \t\turged Parties to report on HWP in a transparent manner.
  The 11th BASIC Ministerial Meeting on Climate Change was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 12-13 July 2012 and attended by representatives from Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC).
SINGAPORE called for addressing the relationship between the Convention and the new agreement.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA agreed but cautioned against listing project activities based on the host country.
The US, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, CHILE and BRAZIL opposed a role for the COP/ MOP.
A number of countries, including LATVIA, stated that their second inventories are being prepared and that it would be too complicated to recalculate them.
NEW ZEALAND opposed the establishment of an international mechanism to address loss and damage under the UNFCCC, highlighting difficulties with proving the link between climate change and any specific extreme event.
Although opposing retention of the listed initiatives, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, also provided amendments to the existing text in case it should be retained, including: replacing text on the assessment of demonstrable progress by 2005 with a request to Parties to "continue sharing information"; replacing the requirement to assess and minimize the adverse effects of P&amp;Ms with a requirement to facilitate information sharing on this issue; and bracketing reference to the use of "quantitative criteria" in reporting on P&amp;Ms in national communications.
The US highlighted the need to incorporate IPCC work relating to good practices.
Several parties suggested a non-exhaustive list of inputs, with the EU calling for consideration on how to manage inputs.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and New Zealand, also called for reference to remedies in the text.
On increase of risk of food \t\t\tscarcity, the US noted that some areas will experience an increase \t\t\tin crop productivity, while in others it will decrease.
Delegates heard statements from the following intergovernmental organizations: the World Meteorological Organization; the United Nations Industrial Development Organization; the United Nations Development Programme; the United Nations Environment Programme; Parlamento Latinoamericano; the World Bank; UNESCO; IPCC; the Latin American Energy Organization; OECD; and the International Energy Agency.
AUSTRALIA elaborated on her country’s proposal on national schedules of mitigation commitments or actions, noting that the proposal goes beyond a “pledge and review,” takes into account different circumstances and capabilities of parties, and enables transparency and enhancing action over time.
The EU called for developed country leadership and ambitious targets.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tThe EU proposed text on accompanying budget proposals with an \t\t\tadvisory report from the UN Advisory Committee on Administrative and \t\t\tBudgetary Questions.
AUSTRALIA emphasized: building understanding on issues, such as what drives and what can incentivize ambition, through sharing experiences, best practices and success stories; the important catalytic and demonstration effect of complementary activities taking place outside the UNFCCC; hearing from parties on what they require to ramp up ambition; and the development of credible carbon markets.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized: dynamic differentiation between parties according to CBDR and equity; and the need to catalyze means of implementation and climate-friendly investment.
The EU, and others, suggested organizing the workshop proposed by the Secretariat with IPCC, preferably after COP-6 and after the completion of the work of the IPCC Third Assessment Report.
Canada, the EU, Japan and Switzerland, opposed by the G-77/China, preferred to consider adaptation and mitigation under one agenda item.
 \t\tINFORMATION ABOUT THE BASE YEAR OF KAZAKHSTAN:
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said a fundamental change was needed in the IPR regime, and in public research and development policy.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA underscored the importance of maintaining demand for CDM credits.
In response to a question from BOLIVIA on the CDM, Banuri said it could provide incentives for investment in developing countries, but that much work remained to ensure that it contributed to sustainable development.
The US and Canada suggested postponing consideration of the review of guidelines on national communications until SB-14.
The EU and Switzerland highlighted taxation measures and, with Australia, emissions trading.
Belize, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), underscored the urgency of adaptation and stressed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol immediately following the first one, and called for a legally-binding agreement in South Africa.
During the closing plenary, the EU urged respecting the rules of procedure, in particular, regarding rotating chairmanship between Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
The US said that equitable access to sustainable development should focus on development opportunities and that a formulaic approach results in conclusions that are “not tenable in the real world.”
UKRAINE said JI should be given priority and that the main goal should be the reduction, rather than the redistribution, of emissions.
The EU, opposed by AUSTRALIA, said there should be a pre-commitment review of elements pertaining to participation in the mechanisms, and an annual review during the commitment period.
While the US, Canada, the EU and others \t\taccepted the text as a good basis for discussion, the G-77/China felt it \t\tneeded more details on implementation.
Noting that current discussions reminded him of Buzz Lightyear’s motto “to infinity and beyond,” BAHAMAS underscored the need to ensure deployment of existing technologies now, and not in the distant future.
The US also highlighted, inter alia: effects of cropland and rangelands; improvements in forest management; and inventory and data reporting.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA outlined their proposal for convening an open-ended ministerial level session before COP 16 to deal with “crunch issues” and provide political guidance to the UNFCCC process.
MEXICO explained that his country had held a number of consultations with parties and stakeholders throughout the year in preparation for Cancun and highlighted, inter alia, a meeting on mitigation, including MRV, and the pre-COP ministerial meeting after Tianjin.
  The US defined the objective of the CTCN as helping developing countries identify projects and strategies to enhance low-emission and climate-resilient development.
On the election of the Board, SAMOA, with the EU and BULGARIA, called for consideration of gender balance.
With BRAZIL, INDIA, MALAYSIA and PAKISTAN, he urged discussing paragraphs 1(b)(i) and 1(b)(ii) of the BAP separately, while JAPAN preferred discussing them together.
He highlighted fast-track financial support through the REDD+ partnership and, with AUSTRALIA, ECUADOR and others, identified the need for public and private funding.
The EU underscored that the focus should be on the most vulnerable developing countries and opposed references to impacts of response measures and historical emissions.
On the issue of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Italy, for the EU, said developed countries must make a greater effort and developing countries must also take steps towards this end.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by the EU, deleted references to "within available resources" and "resources permitting."
INDIA noted that, although the transfer of technology was an important tool in efforts to address climate change, the lessons and solutions to be found in traditional knowledge systems should not be overlooked.
The EU, Switzerland and Australia supported the initial composition, and Switzerland and Australia said further consideration of the terms of reference was not necessary.
NIUE criticized the 2 b0C goal \t\tas inadequate.
NORWAY, with the US and the EU, underscored the importance of further guidance on safeguards information systems.
On text agreeing on a "frame for action" to consider further steps to advance work on P&amp;Ms, the US proposed limiting the reference to considering further steps "in implementing decision 13/CP.7."
On recipients of capacity building, the G77/CHINA said these are developing countries only, while the EU, KAZAKHSTAN and others said it included countries with economies in transition.
The US stated that 89% of dues had been collected this year, while the Secretariat noted that, although this was correct, one-third of Parties had not yet paid.
CHINA stressed the need to use policy instruments and create incentives for private finance to flow “where we want it to flow.” He underscored that without public finance there is no hope of leveraging private financing, and urged prioritizing public finance.
GUATEMALA supported the inclusion of sinks.
On the way forward, ECUADOR supported submissions, with the US and EU expressing reservations.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted that models could be used as evidence of possible consequences.
The EU also highlighted the impact of LULUCF accounting rules and the use of surplus Assigned Amount Units (AAUs) on the level of ambition.
LUXEMBOURG urged a positive signal from the \t\tUS.
TUVALU underscored the need to consider the data contained in the 1 August submissions, rather than focusing solely on the synthesis of the textual proposals.
VENEZUELA stated that the wording on the temperature goal is “worse than in the Copenhagen Accord.” PANAMA stated that an “agreement that is perfect for everyone is going to be imperfect and cruel for the planet.”
AOSIS noted the need for region-specific and special mechanisms for LDCs and SIDS.
NEW ZEALAND suggested learning from the use of the tiered approach of the IPCC.
TUNISIA, with SENEGAL and CANADA, supported designating a climate change day.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for including short-term activities in the workplan, and for more in-session workshops.
AUSTRALIA said moving to textual discussions was preemptive.
MALAYSIA, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and INDIA favored prioritizing regional scenarios on climate change to facilitate developing countries’ work on national communications.
KENYA said though the benefits of land use activities are undeniable, including them in the CDM is likely to be counter-productive.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed adding cleaner fossil fuel technology to the positive list of project activities.
PORTUGAL said adaptation could promote sustainable development and equity within and across generations.
The US, supported by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed that the Secretariat produce an information paper on links between the TAR and other agenda items.
The AFRICAN GROUP, CANADA, ICELAND, SAUDI ARABIA and SWITZERLAND supported an eight-year commitment period.
SWITZERLAND agreed on the need to reflect the objective of achieving zero net GHG emissions.
CANADA hoped the review would focus on a small number of practical recommendations.
On fungibility and assigned amounts, she reported that India and the US were conducting consultations.
SOUTH AFRICA and TANZANIA said the adaptation levy on the CDM should also apply to the other mechanisms.
The EU stated that focus should be placed on those with the least capacity to deal with negative consequences.
The EU stressed that virtual participation should count towards quorum at JISC meetings, while Ukraine expressed concern, noting technical and time zone constraints.
BANGLADESH noted the need to link the long-term goal with poverty reduction.
The G-77/CHINA opposed changing the guidelines for non-Annex I communications, as many non-Annex I countries have not finalized their first communications.
Benin, for the LDCs, supported by BARBADOS, JAMAICA, FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, BRAZIL, ZAMBIA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO expressed concern over including CCS under the CDM.
e2 80 9d INDONESIA highlighted the need to ensure adherence to Convention principles in the entire agreement, including the two sections on finance, and cooperation and support for implementation.
  The LDC Expert Group (LEG), presented on the LEG’s activities, including: engagement with the GEF Secretariat and expansion of technical guidance on National Adaptation Plans (NAPs).
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said a collective emission reduction goal might be a useful tool for indicating the aspiration of countries, while saying it should not be used for defining individual targets.
 \t\t\tIn the \t\t\tensuing discussion, delegates raised questions concerning increasing \t\t\tthe level of technological investment by Annex I parties, expanding \t\t\tthe EU ETS to include other gases, and the merits of regulatory \t\t\tapproaches as opposed to voluntary agreements.
The US said a Party should be able to refer questions with respect to another Party 92s compliance only to the facilitation branch.
  CDM Executive Board Chair Martin Hession (UK) reported on efforts to improve the Board’s work, including strengthening additionality guidance and standardized baselines, as well as guidelines on “suppressed demand.” He urged a clear signal on the CDM’s future.
Despite protestations by the US that its concerns had not been addressed, the Chair gavelled this matter to a close.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA and others highlighted the benefits of using standardized baselines under the CDM.
On reporting of bunker emissions, the EU proposed that any decision on their inclusion in national inventories should be applied in the second commitment period.
MAURITANIA urged simplification of procedures to access funding in order to ensure eligible countries can benefit.
SAUDI ARABIA said that there was no agreement on these conclusions and proposed replacing all paragraphs with text noting that SBSTA had not completed its consideration of issues under this item, but agreed to continue consideration at SBSTA-18.
During the SBSTA closing plenary, the EU, Saudi Arabia, Australia, Norway and Japan expressed regret that agreement had not been reached.
 \t\tSouth Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed \t\tadaptation and the adverse impacts of response measures.
INDIA identified limited implementation of commitments regarding finance and technology as the central barrier.
Praising the utility of the pre-sessional workshops, Argentina, for the G-77/China, requested the workshop reports also be submitted to the AWG-KP.
SAUDI ARABIA requested a written version of the Secretariat’s oral report, which the Secretariat agreed to provide.
SAUDI ARABIA said the forum is necessary because Annex I parties have not reported on potential consequences in their national communications, while NEW ZEALAND underscored that Annex I parties were not required to report on potential consequences until their fifth national communications, which have just been completed and reviewed.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for expanded analysis of GHG emissions.
BOLIVIA said that the agriculture policy framework should focus on meeting the interests of local and indigenous communities, and on food sovereignty, including the right of people to control seeds, land, water use and food production.
China, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), called for starting textual negotiations as soon as possible, and for reflecting differentiation, the nationally-determined nature of contributions and flexibility for developing countries.
Nafie Ali Nafie, Assistant President of Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to maintain a two-track outcome under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol on the basis of comparable and ambitious emission reductions, and respect the Convention’s principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
The US stressed discussions on triggers and actions were “derivative” of the committee’s scope.
The US called for using existing mechanisms, such as national communications and expert review teams.
e2 80 9d Colombia, for AILAC, requested that a synthesis be e2 80 9ccompiled into a summary and presented at the annual high-level forum.
He also noted the UK’s proposal for a separate report on climate change impacts on marine ecosystems, including ocean acidification.
TUVALU favored quickly establishing a legally-binding outcome.
BELGIUM supported a flexible approach focused on achieving successful outcomes and said a COW or another new structure should be transparent and monitored by all Parties.
JAPAN stressed the importance of revitalizing JI.
GAMBIA, GHANA, the US, PALAU and MALAWI welcomed the earmarking of 50% of GCF finance for adaptation, and supported continued balance in the agreement.
CHINA and GHANA underscored a sectoral approach to technology transfer.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: additional resources for the LDC Expert Group (LEG); replenishing the LDCF; and enhancing access to the GCF.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for capacity building for a range of issues, including NAMAs, MRV and REDD+.
BANGLADESH, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that the G-77/China had discussed the issues internally and accepted these conclusions.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged progress and conclusion on key issues, including adaptation, finance and capacity building.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the Protocol is the only instrument in place to harmonize efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and stressed that the AWG-KP should be “steered away from” the AWG-LCA, to maintain the distinction between the two tracks.
The US proposed moving IPCC-44 forward from December to October to allow preparation of the 1.5 c2 b0C SR to commence as soon as possible.
The EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and NORWAY suggested the 8 June version of the streamlined and consolidated text be used to move discussions forward.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that many Parties had referred to IPPC measures and findings, and said it is premature to have conclusions on this issue.
Several parties, including JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and the US, emphasized the role of existing institutions.
SWAZILAND proposed requesting the CDM EB to prioritize a review of methodologies that could promote CDM projects in Africa.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted related challenges.
Saint Lucia, Norway, Germany, the UK, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Spain, the US, New Zealand, Japan, France, Solomon Islands, Hungary, Chile, the EU and others opposed Saudi Arabia’s suggestions, and urged keeping the language simple and leaving the content to the scoping process.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, stressed the importance of the Secretariat also considering gaps and shortfalls in implementing the framework.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Uganda, for LDCs, CHINA, BRAZIL and others stressed the importance of the means of implementation.
CANADA, opposed by the EU, supported the Croatian proposal and requested further information on the assessment of the forest cap.
Bryan Hannegan, US, identified \t\t\tvarious technological challenges, including increasing grid \t\t\tefficiency and sending the right price signals to consumers.
Noting that Cancun would not be the “final word,” BRAZIL called for simple decisions that capture the essence of the different issues.
NEW ZEALAND supported the US and stated that the revised measures should be adopted at COP-2 to be applied to second national communications.
AUSTRALIA and the US suggested prioritization of issues.
The AFRICAN GROUP supported such a non-paper for adaptation communications, which the US, JAPAN and NORWAY opposed.
CANADA said it should consider, inter alia: ratification of the Protocol; recommendations of the IPCC TAR; efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objectives.
BANGLADESH endorsed the LEG work programme and identified the need to clarify guidance to the GEF in order to assist implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, asked whether this matter could be considered in more detail in the afternoon session.
The US and Japan asked about the budgetary implications of these activities, with the US suggesting deleting reference to co-sponsored workshops for this reason.
MALAYSIA proposed noting that all action be “in accordance with normal UN practice.” Delegates debated the issue at length before agreeing to language noting that any new substantive proposals, including proposals affecting the purpose and organization of the ministerial segment, should be communicated to all Parties well in advance of the conference, in accordance with UN practice.
On the CDM, UGANDA said the poorest and most vulnerable countries, many of which are in Africa, may not attract profit-driven CDM projects.
ARGENTINA, supported by KENYA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and POLAND, called for attention to the medical use of HFCs in metered dose inhalers.
The EU stressed the need for transparent accounting rules and for establishment of new market mechanisms in Durban.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested considering lessons learned from the Kyoto Protocol, including that: agreed rules have to be fulfilled; and the need for flexibility to enable parties willing to participate to do so.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA said the uncertainties regarding the impact of response measures are greater.
With AUSTRIA, MOROCCO, SUDAN, the UK, AUSTRALIA and others, NEW ZEALAND supported the production of AR4 SYR.
AUSTRALIA supported standardizing the process and having a streamlined, common reporting format, highlighting that this would contribute to the comparability of information.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, also drew attention to gaps in terms of scaling up support, transparency, accounting, risk management and risk reduction strategies.
The EU presented a proposal centered on the objective of advancing the TEP, with incorporation of elements, such as a high-level segment, and engagement of Convention bodies and other actors.
EGYPT said the draft governing instrument lacks crucial elements, including international legal personality, accountability to the COP and country ownership of projects.
The EU underscored that mitigation has proven to be a powerful force for technological change and economic development.
The EU proposed adding reference to UNFCCC Article 7.2(b) (exchange of information on measures) and 7.2(c) (co-ordination of measures), and Protocol Articles 13.4(c) (exchange of information on measures), 13.4(d) (co-ordination of measures), and bracketed reference to UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects), and Protocol Article 7.
The US and Norway highlighted integrating adaptation into national planning and policies as a critical element.
AUSTRALIA said they were encouraged by areas of convergence, such as REDD-plus, adaptation and technology and noted “good movement” on finance.
The EU said the contact group should ensure that there will be no duplication of work and take into consideration informal consultations being held on this issue.
The US and EU highlighted the value of increased transparency on NAMAs, through expressing the underlying assumptions, such as GDP growth and baseline emissions.
Parties agreed to include an additional LDC member in the LEG.
Regarding the draft conclusions on Annex I parties’ national communications, the G-77/CHINA stressed the need to specify a date for Annex I countries to submit their sixth national communications.
The Maldives stated that his country was one of those most at risk and pleaded for “our developing country friends to keep the document alive.” Sweden, for the EU, expressed support for the Maldives, noting that the draft decision was a compromise.
Supported by MALAYSIA, he suggested that the technology information system also include impacts and adaptation.
The US, Sweden, and Switzerland cautioned that IPCC funding should be the responsibility of governments, not of other entities that might influence the Panel’s outcomes.
JAPAN said their recently announced new target on reducing emissions by 25% from 1990 levels by 2020 should also be reflected when updating the document.
KUWAIT also noted that the rules of procedure for the FCCC are still not adopted, which may affect the outcome of the AGBM process.
HUNGARY urged setting differences aside and working constructively.
COSTA RICA, also speaking for Guatemala and Panama, said a long-term goal needs to be reflected as a numerical target based on science, and supported stabilizing concentrations at 350 ppm.
BRAZIL supported non-market based financial mechanisms, while POLAND supported enhancing the role of forests in global carbon markets.
Stressing that parties must “pick up the pace,” Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment that some parties insist on working outside the mandate of the Paris Agreement.
The US underscored that additional submissions are not necessary.
On consequences of the enforcement branch, NEW ZEALAND, opposed by BRAZIL and INDIA, suggested new text on the issuance of assigned amounts under Article 3.3 and 3.4.
TUVALU urged reinsertion of language on loss and damage that preserves the issue as an independent article.
AILAC cited the linkages with the transparency framework, keeping in mind the facilitative nature of the compliance mechanism.
Many developing countries stressed their opposition to any “rewriting or re-negotiation of Convention’s principles,” with China, opposed by the US and others, suggesting that the CBDR principle should guide the ADP’s work.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, welcomed the adoption of a decision on the CGE.
The EU did not support a separate annex and noted that the concerns of these countries could be addressed elsewhere, such as in an introductory section.
 \t\t \t\tDETERMINATION OF A QUANTIFIED EMISSION REDUCTION COMMITMENT FOR BELARUS:
SWITZERLAND, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the following consequences: a compliance action plan, restrictions on the use of mechanisms, and a compliance fund.
The G-77/CHINA said work on Articles 5, 7 and 8 should take into account other Protocol articles, including those on demonstrable progress, the financial mechanism and adverse effects.
On Thursday, 24 October, the Secretariat highlighted a recent expert meeting held in Bracknell, UK (25-27 September).
Japan, the US and others supported using the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE opposed.
EL SALVADOR said the COP should define criteria for use by the GEF.
AUSTRALIA and the EU suggested an additional function of determining whether or not a Party is in compliance with Article 3.1.
SUDAN suggested including text on sustainably-managed forests, while the EU proposed making forest management mandatory and said methodological issues should be further addressed to avoid double counting and improve consistency.
The EU, Liechtenstein, Japan, Monaco and Switzerland also stated they would not purchase surplus AAUs carried over from the first commitment period.
The G-77/CHINA said it is \t\tinterested in technologies that can be released to the public domain, \t\tand CHINA stated that it would not accept any linkage between public \t\tdomain technologies and property rights.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said Durban must deliver an outcome that ensures the fulfillment of the Convention’s ultimate objective.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted that there was agreement among the EITs on the principles and scope of the framework, but stated that consultations to complete an EIT group submission were ongoing.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that the Chair’s text does not reflect the submissions of the G-77/China and that the current text reflects “starting from the beginning.” AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and the US supported using the draft text as the basis for discussions.
Replying to a question from FINLAND relating to the fact that some methodological guidelines for adaptation assessments are now over a decade old, Feenstra said methodologies should continue to be developed, but that this should not be used as a reason to delay adaptation assessments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol needs to be implementable on 1 January 2013, for an eight-year period.
NEW ZEALAND, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said discussions on methodologies on the impact of implementation of the Protocol should be included under the ef bf bdprojections ef bf bd topic.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, proposed that revision to the guidelines be taken by consensus.
INDIA emphasized strengthening the reporting process for Annex I Parties.
INDIA advocated focusing on the whole technology cycle, from research to development, transfer and diffusion, and proposed addressing needs at each stage.
SAUDI ARABIA and CANADA proposed considering \t\tnational circumstances, and NEW ZEALAND suggested looking at examples of \t\tnational policies that address least-cost mitigation approaches.
The EU suggested continued use of draft IPCC guidelines for national communication and collaboration between subsidiary bodies.
The EU asked about the implications of different options relating to liability for reporting and review under the compliance system.
High-level panelists then discussed: SIDS’ challenges in mobilizing private investment for adaptation; the African Development Bank’s focus on energy in Africa; the inability to achieve the green transition as long as fossil fuels are subsidized with US$500 billion annually; the need for “a revolution of our awareness” to achieve more ethical economies; the “perfect storm of solutions” available today, including an availability of more capital than ever before; and creation of an overarching dialogue with the investment community.
CANADA, supported by \t\tBOLIVIA, proposed community participation in impact assessments.
\t\tThe G-77/China stated that Annex I parties are failing to meet their \t\tobligations under the Protocol, while the EU, Japan and others stressed \t\ttheir commitment and efforts to achieving their targets.
The UK questioned what regional information countries actually need and suggested considering a web-based approach to deliver the information.
 AUSTRALIA said implementation of Article 4.1 commitments is part of the BM.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that the outcome would facilitate rapid progress.
Cuba, on behalf of several countries, expressed concern with respect to unilateral measures in relation to aviation emissions, such as under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, supported by COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA, repeatedly objected to proceeding without inclusion of the issue of extending the share of proceeds as a “big ticket” item.
SWITZERLAND stressed the need to link the new agreement with: scientific reality, looking beyond fossil fuel emissions; and political reality, looking forward beyond adaption and public funding.
VENEZUELA suggested addressing e2 80 9cthe elephant in the room, e2 80 9d namely that one set of parties seeks a mitigation-based outcome and another feels it should be based on elements of the BAP.
 On commitments, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, ARGENTINA and CHINA called for differentiated obligations for developed and developing countries.
 During the afternoon meeting of the contact group, JAPAN highlighted their proposal under institutional arrangements for three funds: a climate change fund to finance implementation of mitigation and adaptation activities, programmes and measures; an adaptation fund to finance adaptation projects and programmes in the most vulnerable developing countries; and a green enabling environmental fund for financing enabling environments and capacity building activities, including the preparation of greenhouse gas inventories, national communications and national action plans on mitigation, national adaptation programmes of action and enabling activities for REDD-plus.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA suggested that the IPCC Report \t\tcould be taken up at COP 14.
Reporting back from the spin-off on loss and damage, GRENADA highlighted two proposals: from the G-77/China, placing a loss and damage mechanism with a climate displacement coordination facility in the agreement, noting that this mechanism would replace the Warsaw International Mechanism (WIM) after 2020; and from the US, the EU, Switzerland and Australia, addressing loss and damage through COP decisions, and capturing the WIM’s permanence.
On guidelines for implementation of Article 6, SAMOA and the G-77/CHINA expressed concern with the early start of projects and their eligibility for ERUs as of 2008.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the principle of least-cost emission reductions in the Convention.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested that a mid-term review would act as an “early warning system.” NEW ZEALAND said that science would give a picture of the global state of action required and thus there is a need for reflection on actions by all countries.
On  , SWITZERLAND, the EU and NORWAY proposed drawing from the Lima guidance on INDCs.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the importance of the SBSTA’s work on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries (REDD) and the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation (NWP).
NIGERIA emphasized social development and poverty alleviation.
The US felt that the pilot phase should assess all issues of AIJ, including credits.
He also urged, supported by AILAC, rapid ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU said that individual members of the EU will make interventions on specific points.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a decision on the host of the CTC based on, inter alia, capacity to respond to developing country needs.
 The EU requested that the SBSTA commend the IPCC summaries and synthesis report and bring forward the recommendations on research and observation to COP-2 as a point of action.
Canada, supported by Austria, noted a need for well-defined objectives and outcomes for the meeting, and the UK called for a focused report attending to the transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy.
The EU, supported by NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, said any financial architecture should be based on principles of effectiveness, efficiency and equity.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP requested the Secretariat to undertake analytical work on proposals in a manner similar to work on share of proceeds under the Kyoto Protocol.
NORWAY identified broad agreement on the need for a legally-binding instrument, while saying work towards this goal should not duplicate efforts.
PANAMA recommended that a compendium of national \t\tcommunications on climate change impacts and measures taken should be \t\tforwarded to these meetings.
The draft conclusions took note of the revised schedule of work and urged the IPCC to give high priority to the development of regional scenarios and regional impacts of climate change and, as added by KUWAIT, to economic impact assessments of new commitments by Annex I countries.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a legally-binding outcome agreed by political leaders in Copenhagen.
Supported by the AFRICAN GROUP and others, he stressed that some mechanisms, such as the CDM, exist only under the Protocol and that if the Protocol will be absorbed by a new agreement, these will either disappear or be opened to renegotiation.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment at lack of progress on issues such as the Adaptation Fund.
Kuwait expressed concerns about this issue being used to shift commitments from Annex I to non-Annex I parties The US said the IMO’s decision stems from its own mandate, which precedes the Kyoto Protocol.
 The second, third, fourth and fifth sessions of the intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda convened during the period from February-May 2015 at UN Headquarters in New York, US, to prepare components for a new global sustainable development agenda to be adopted at the 25-27 September 2015 Summit.
Supporting China, INDIA stressed the need for fairness and transparency in the EB’s work.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that the APA must also be flexible and allow each item to move forward at its own pace.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and ETHIOPIA, stated that it is not practical to proceed with mandatory baselines.
Raising concerns over LULUCF and “hot air” credits, BOLIVIA requested that their concerns be reflected in the workshop report.
On the scope of the review, GERMANY suggested that it cover cancellation of assigned amount units, including cancellation with respect to LULUCF.
The EU expressed disappointment that the agenda item on MRV had failed to move forward under the SBI and looked forward to substantive discussions on related issues under the AWG-LCA.
Newspaper accounts reported that European ministers, when signing the Protocol, expressed strong concern that the US, Japan and Russia were violating the spirit of the agreement by pursuing trading rather than domestic reductions.
TUNGOs underscored the importance of realizing the US$100 billion finance commitment as soon as possible.
Canada noted that the \t\tsection on flooded lands represented a prudent compromise, while the US \t\tcautioned against further changes to the document, stating that the 2006 \t\tGuidelines were designed as a comprehensive package and underscoring the \t\tdanger of deleting sections or relegating them to appendices.
The US walked out of discussions early in the night, expressing \t\tconcerns about the nature and direction of the process.
The US proposal highlighted five functions of the compliance entity: to decide which referred matters would be pursued; to provide advice and facilitation; to address allegations about the eligibility to use mechanisms; to determine whether an allegation of non-compliance is well founded; and to determine outcomes of non-compliance.
The US opposed the G-77/CHINA proposal to delete reference to "integrated approaches" to technology transfer.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by SAMOA, bracketed text permitting one Party to raise questions with respect to another.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tThe US queried language indicating that the UNFCCC reporting \t\t\tguidelines need to be revised before a decision is made on how to \t\t\tuse the 2006 Guidelines.
The EU called for a common dialogue, including identifying a level of non-dangerous emissions concentrations.
The EU underscored the need for dialogue on the matter.
Honduras, for the Central American Integration System (SICA), said: adaptation is the priority for the majority of developing countries, in particular for the most vulnerable ones.
The EU supported the creation of new mechanisms, building on mitigation by developing countries and operating at larger scales.
 Delegates continued consideration of the draft COP-8 decision on demonstrable progress under Protocol Article 3.2, agreeing to text requesting Parties to report on progress in accordance with UNFCCC and Protocol Article 7 guidelines, and "incorporating any relevant contribution pursuant to decision 13/CP.7," which relates to work under P&amp;Ms. Parties could not agree on a G-77/CHINA proposal that the information submitted should be evaluated along with the national communication, and the issue will taken up in informal consultations.
CDM Executive Board Chair Martin Hession (UK) reported on efforts to improve the Board’s work, including strengthening additionality guidance and standardized baselines, as well as guidelines on “suppressed demand,” and urged a clear signal on the CDM’s future.
The EU, \t\twith Canada, proposed a pre-sessional workshop, as it would be more cost \t\tefficient and would not interfere with other agenda items.
BARBADOS, supported by GRENADA and COSTA RICA, stressed that the text on adaptation should not address response measures, highlighting that “patients suffering from a common cold should receive a different kind of attention than those with a serious illness.”
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN, suggested that countries with high GDP join Annex I.
CANADA supported review e2 80 9cat some point.
NORWAY, CANADA and others said the Convention should play a catalytic role.
CHINA emphasized \t\tthe need for balanced representation by developed and developing \t\tcountries.
He opposed emissions borrowing and, with HUNGARY, opposed a new category for countries that are rapidly developing.
The LDCs and AOSIS proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
JAPAN supported the IPCC\'s provision of short-term updates and the division of labor between the IPCC, the SBSTA and the TAPs.
LDCs, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested first working on the various options within paragraphs before attempting to merge paragraphs.
 EGYPT supported the establishment of lists from which Parties could chose.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to consider the \t\timpact of Annex I mitigation activities on developing countries and \t\tPAKISTAN called for further work on the impact of response measures.
CANADA supported exploring sectoral approaches, suggested establishing multi-project baselines for the CDM and simplifying rules for LULUCF, and noted that the Executive Board might become a full-time body in the future.
INDONESIA noted efforts focusing on policy interventions on, inter alia: forest drivers; institution mechanics; and demonstration activities.
The LDCs said the new mechanism must provide easy access for LDCs.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the GPG provides the necessary guidelines for reporting and should be adopted.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized close links between the three subsidiary bodies.
On Tuesday, 29 October, the contact group continued discussions on the report of the GEF, with Parties failing to reach agreement on negotiating text tabled by the EU and Canada.
JAPAN opposed deleting the option that nuclear activities are eligible under the CDM.
NORWAY said elements on accounting and periodicity should be part of the mitigation section.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented that the positive spirit of the heads of delegation meeting on finance on Tuesday, 4 December, had not resulted in notable progress in SBI consultations on Agreement Article 9.5.
The decision should refer to the clear need for reduction targets but instead only pays lip service to the AOSIS protocol.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported the inclusion of new documented greenhouse gases and the improvement of the flexibility mechanisms.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that initiatives above and beyond national actions should be encouraged, especially in the area of carbon capture and storage.
ARGENTINA and NORWAY agreed to reflect the US 92 concern \t\tin the conclusions.
The EU said Convention Article 2 (objective) is not sufficient, and AOSIS stated that the task is to operationalize Article 2 in light of scientific advances.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by INDIA, cautioned against “cherry picking” individual findings.
EGYPT said the protocol should deal only with new commitments, while the reaffirmation of existing commitments remains a COP concern.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the importance of the Protocol\'s entry into force as soon as possible and cautioned against distractions from this point.
Focusing on climate change, they issued a declaration stating that only a “few short years” remain to address the climate threat and that an “internationally legally-binding agreement is essential.” They also, inter alia, welcomed the initiative to establish a Copenhagen Launch Fund for developing countries, to start in 2010 and build to US$10 billion per year by 2012.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underlined the need for urgent action and for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation.
INDIA stressed the committee should take into account capabilities and suggested it examine non-compliance by developed countries for recommendations by the CMA.
A bracketed sentence was added, based on proposals from CANADA and AUSTRALIA, stating that in the interim Parties may wish to consider relevant issues, particularly 3.4.
The EIG opposed a link to response measures.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), requested holding the first contact group meetings before tabling draft conclusions and supported joint SBSTA and SBI meetings on technology transfer.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: affirming the Convention principles; effectively implementing the BAP; and considering how to carry forward any incomplete work from the AWG-LCA.
The contact group was then suspended following a request from the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, to enable the Group to coordinate.
On what adaptation communications seek to achieve, Thailand, for the G-77/China, emphasized the objective as catalyzing action by clearly communicating national needs, priorities and plans, and urged viewing adaptation communications as means to assist developing countries towards achieving the global goal on adaptation without being punitive.
IRAN identified obstacles facing developing countries seeking transfers of technology at their own expense due to restrictions imposed by developed countries.
SINGAPORE cautioned against listing specific issues to avoid a potential exclusion of those not listed.
The US and EU supported the Colombian tonne-year accounting approach.
 \t\tMATTERS RELATING TO THE LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES:  \t\t
In the discussion that followed, UNSIDS supported the proposal to give urgent attention to implementing actions for LDCs.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, questioned the inclusion on the agenda of the biannual budget for 2018-2019, given SBI 46 agreed to a draft decision.
 \t\tJAMAICA, CHINA, TUVALU and others supported establishing an expert \t\tgroup.
The Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) expressed concern about this decision and said there was no excuse for the COP not to carry out this review.
BRAZIL proposed including a placeholder for enhancing International Consultation and Analysis (ICA) and International Assessment and Review (IAR) processes.
 CHINA warned against duplication of existing mechanisms and said that the FCCC should not copy the non-compliance procedure under the Montreal Protocol.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, highlighted gaps in the implementation of obligations under the Convention and called for enhancement of support.
The EU highlighted the cross-cutting role of technology and the technology framework in addressing the goals of the Paris Agreement and the importance of both private and public sector involvement.
The US emphasized public-private partnerships and noted national programmes on carbon sequestration, hydrogen and nuclear energy.
CHINA and VENEZUELA expressed concern that returning to the elements text from Lima would be a step backward.
AOSIS noted that “limited opposition” to the proposal “holds the promise of common consensus.”
MEXICO, the EU, CHILE, TUVALU and NORWAY supported continuing workstream 2 after 2015.
INDONESIA lamented the lack of significant movement under the AWG-LCA, observing that differences between parties were “wide and worrying.”
CANADA said useful indicators for calculating mitigation potentials included the marginal costs of abatement, cost of emission reductions as a percentage of GDP, and the percentage of “welfare loss.”
Germany, supported by New Zealand, IPCC Vice-Chair and Science Board Chair Ko Barrett, the UK, Norway, the US, Switzerland, Japan, France, Sweden, Belgium, and Spain, said that the IPCC Principles and Procedures are there for a reason and should be followed, opposed inserting language on “objections” in the decision text, and reiterated that the specific objections would be recorded in the report of the meeting.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and strengthen the capacities of the LDCs to implement CDM projects.
COSTA RICA asked how equity among developing countries will be addressed in the future, underscoring that she would like to see countries like China, Brazil and India making more efforts to combat climate change.
Benin, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted funding.
CHINA underscored public financing.
Highlighting the US$2.7 billion already invested in mitigation, GEF CEO and Chair Monique Barbut emphasized GEF reform centered on four focal points: response to Convention guidance, country ownership, effectiveness and efficiency, and the fifth replenishment.
ZIMBABWE, TANZANIA and SOUTH AFRICA said methodological and institutional issues relating to the flexibility mechanisms, such as the CDM, should be the focus of deliberation.
CHINA and MALAYSIA suggested postponing AIJ workshops until after COP-3 to avoid basing decisions on incomplete information.
He expressed concern that “the benefits of the Kyoto Protocol flexibility mechanisms are threatened here in Doha” and called for ensuring “broad access to these.” Liechtenstein, on behalf of the EIG, emphasized three outstanding issues: length of the second commitment period, level of ambition, and the smooth transition to the second commitment period.
Parties agreed to forward the outcome of the work of the AWG-KP, as orally amended by AOSIS, to the CMP for further consideration and finalization.
TANZANIA stressed equity in the distribution of projects.
AOSIS raised concerns over “window dressing,” such as accounting tricks and conditionalities.
The EU, with JAPAN, CANADA and SWITZERLAND, stressed that a global, ambitious and comprehensive agreement is required to preserve the environmental integrity of the Convention.
The EU, inter alia: emphasized accounting rules and suggested bringing these from the Section on transparency of action and support, into the Section on mitigation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need to amend the Kyoto Protocol to establish a second and subsequent commitment periods, and lamented signs that Annex I parties are not fully committed to an agreement under the AWG-KP.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the UNFCCC as the sole forum where decisions on climate change should be made.
Nicaragua, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), underscored agriculture discussions should focus on adaptation and ensure food sovereignty and security.
SAUDI ARABIA said information gaps should not be used as a pretext for inaction.
Citing the need for transparency and accountability, BELGIUM and DENMARK called for making the simple model used to produce those graphics available with its source code and parameters.
Martin Manning (US), WG I Technical Support Unit (TSU), expressed concern regarding the proposed timeline for the presentation of an advance copy of AR4 SYR at UNFCCC COP-13 in November 2007.
INDIA explained that AA are fixed amounts and therefore cannot be reviewed, however the information on additions and subtractions would be reviewed.
Many speakers, such as URUGUAY, NICARAGUA and SAUDI ARABIA, cautioned against straying from the ultimate objective of the Convention and spending an inordinate amount of time discussing cooperative mechanisms, which only serve selected countries.
The US, with TURKEY, called for a separate chapter on MRV.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EGYPT, cautioned against “cherry-picking” from Decision 1/CP.17.
Australia, Slovenia, for the European Union (EU), Norway, Samoa, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and others supported addressing all elements this year and called for considering all four building blocks at each session.
BRAZIL underscored links between Articles 5, 7 and 8 and LULUCF modalities under the CDM.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized maintaining the balance achieved in the Paris outcome, including by identifying how the IPCC will inform the global stocktake and guidance on the accounting of financial resources.
 On the architecture to deliver on finance and technology transfer, the NETHERLANDS suggested combining the Mexican (Green Fund) and Norwegian (auctioning of AAUs) proposals, and said countries should pay according to capacity and contribution to global emissions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the agreement to address the gaps in the current climate finance architecture.
ETHIOPIA emphasized e2 80 9cglaring e2 80 9d differences in needs for capacity building in developing countries and, opposed by the US, called for commitments on capacity building.
AOSIS reminded delegates that the modalities under discussion are to apply in the first commitment period only, and, with the EU, said that it did not support a stand-alone insurance approach.
SOUTH AFRICA envisaged a mitigation registry closely related to the financial mechanism and said the registry could, inter alia, record and match actions and support, and provide technical analysis.
The LDCs, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the EU supported a e2 80 9cnon-threatening e2 80 9d and facilitative review process.
AUSTRALIA urged considering ideas that “blur the line” between mitigation and adaptation, saying many projects may have multiple benefits.
CHINA said no new market mechanisms are needed, while expressing willingness to address the special needs of Annex I countries that are not parties to the Protocol, saying the Protocol rules should apply mutantis mutandis to such countries if they take on commitments under sub-paragraph 1(b)(i) of the BAP.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed the importance of reaching agreement in Doha on a second commitment period that begins on 1 January 2013.
SWITZERLAND and ARGENTINA supported discussion of the issue, while NICARAGUA expressed concerns with the CDM.
AUSTRALIA agreed that there are links with the discussions under the Protocol but highlighted that this sub-group represents an opportunity for a holistic discussion.
NEW ZEALAND noted slow progress on the development of technical methodologies and, supported by JAPAN, CANADA and MALAYSIA, suggested further technical review.
CHILE emphasized that national strategies for sustainable development must address adaptation and mitigation policies.
AIJ: The G-77/CHINA supported the continuation of the pilot phase and, with ZAMBIA, highlighted the imbalance in the geographical distribution of AIJ projects.
In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and it exempts developing countries from emissions targets.
The US highlighted the need to prioritize important issues, and take into account capacity, expertise, and financial considerations.
The EU underscored the importance of developing modalities for the Paris Committee on Capacity-building, and of the next periodic review of the long-term global goal (LTGG).
On the composition of the Executive Board, the G-77/CHINA emphasized the need for fair geographical representation.
CHINA requested clarification on potential implications for forestry and other sectors.
NEW ZEALAND supported making progress on HWPs and considering principles of environmental integrity and transparency.
JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA, ALGERIA, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, SYRIA, NIGERIA, LIBYA and others, opposed by GRENADA and TUVALU, stressed the importance of including CCS under the CDM.
On future revisions to the text, SAUDI ARABIA requested retaining the current text as a separate option, with NEW ZEALAND saying that it reserves the right to have a third option if parties “go down the option route.”
The US favored a simple set of rules for emissions trading and specified, inter alia, that no formal trading should occur until the Protocol enters into force.
Regarding framing of the work, several developed countries underscored the repetitiveness of the current formulation, while the G-77/CHINA said that, although they recognize positive consequences, the text should emphasize minimizing negative consequences for developing countries.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, stressed the importance of limiting discussions to issues related to further quantified commitments for Annex I countries.
On Reporting, the US proposed integrating the paragraphs on status reports, individual inventory review reports and adjustment reports into earlier sections.
Parties agreed that, in line with previous practice, the item would be kept open and COP 21 Vice-President Cheikh Ndiaye Sylla (Senegal) would report to the closing plenary on proposals by Japan (FCCC/CP/2009/3), Tuvalu (FCCC/CP/2009/4), Australia (FCCC/CP/2009/5), Costa Rica (FCCC/CP/2009/6), the US (FCCC/CP/2009/7) and Grenada (FCCC/CP/2010/3).
SAUDI ARABIA said some options on sources of funding implied an attempt to renegotiate the Convention.
The EU suggested trying a bottom-up approach in defining the mid-term target where known individual goals are added up and compared to the IPCC mid-term range.
He noted that the issue of insurance needed to be addressed to ensure the long-term viability of the sustainable development process for SIDS.
The EU said that the consequences should not only make non-compliance unattractive but also repair non-compliance.
By 8 December, many of the outstanding issues had been \t\tresolved, with the exception of reference to LDCs and SIDS in the \t\tobjective of the programme, and references to economic diversification \t\tof vulnerable economic sectors, as supported by Saudi Arabia and others.
MEXICO and MALAWI suggested that the text on agriculture should be forwarded to Barcelona.
JAPAN said it should be philosophical rather than concrete.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the need to focus on the main elements of the negotiating text and ensure global participation in the next agreement.
\t\t\tThe UK, opposed by China, proposed using a likelihood statement \t\t\tnoting that the impacts are 93very likely.
COSTA RICA supported a broad portfolio of financial mechanisms.
CHINA said that the text should only include issues on which agreement has been reached.
On  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, pointed to parallel views and a lack of common understanding of the term “country-driven.” The EU, Uganda, for the LDCs, and others stressed that a sense of urgency to undertake enhanced action on financing for mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer should be stated clearly, as well as the need to prioritize support for vulnerable developing countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, identified further areas, including additionality of finance and clarifying developing countries’ needs.
GHANA said comments from the MCP participants should be included in the report to the COP.
On how to label the themes in some of the sections e2 80 99 paragraphs, the US pointed to large convergence among the three proposals for clustering and suggested bundling all paragraphs labeled as e2 80 9csupport.
Recognizing the importance of the issue for AOSIS, NORWAY said the proposal to address loss and damage raises many questions but that his country is open to discussing them.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), called for balanced progress on all elements of the BAP, to enable adoption of a legally-binding instrument in Cancun that will strengthen and supplement the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU suggested that the agreement could develop its own rules of procedure.
  South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, voiced concern over the unbalanced placement of issues in the Co-Chairs’ Tool, and called for progress on pre-2020 ambition.
The US: noted the need to understand the drivers of change; highlighted work of programmes such as the IGBP-START (Systems for Analysis Research and Training); and noted the coordinating role the Secretariat can play in North-South exchange of experience.
Bolivia, for ALBA, supported the G-77/CHINA and inter alia, lamented lack of progress on drivers of deforestation, research and systematic observation, adaptation, agriculture, and water.
NORWAY suggested a mechanism with two branches to cover legal obligations and non-legally binding elements.
BOTSWANA stated that submissions should be compiled into two separate documents: one covering issues related to Protocol Article 3.9 and one on other issues, which are “only for information.” The EU called for a single text on issues covered by the AWG-KP’s work programme, and MICRONESIA agreed that two texts would be a step backwards.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, called for two draft decisions, one relating to FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and the other to Protocol Article 3.14.
While some parties, including the EU, \t\tSaudi Arabia, Japan, Canada, Norway and South Africa, expressed a clear \t\tinterest in accessing CCS technology under the CDM, others opposed it \t\tfor various reasons.
On allowing CCS under the CDM, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN, NIGERIA, KUWAIT, IRAN, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, GHANA and others supported retaining the option, while AOSIS, ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, the GAMBIA and others preferred no decision.
AUSTRALIA circulated a paper with its proposals for issues to be considered in the period before COP-6.
BELGIUM said user requirements for the technical papers must be determined.
The US, supported by Switzerland, noted that:
 Regarding \t\ttopics for consideration for the EGTT 92s 2005 work programme, GHANA \t\tstressed the importance for the EGTT to identify, assess and prioritize \t\tjoint research programmes between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
On   many parties supported a proposal by AOSIS to establish an international mechanism to address loss and damage associated with climate change impacts in vulnerable developing countries.
BANGLADESH preferred not to discuss new mechanisms, and CHINA highlighted the need to focus on aggregate and individual targets for Annex I parties.
ADP Co-Chair Reifsnyder responded that the G-77/CHINA proposal was in line with what he had proposed and parties agreed to the mode of work.
On  , Norway, with Japan, Australia, the EU and others, underscored that since capacity building is a cross-cutting issue relevant to all elements of the BAP it should be integrated throughout the text and not included in a separate section.
AOSIS noted the need to have focused discussions on specific issues in this single contact group, and also suggested using a variety of modalities such as in-session workshops, technical workshops and joint events with the AWG-LCA.
INDONESIA said efforts to minimize adverse impacts of response measures can be considered as part of NAMAs.
NEW ZEALAND presented an “Assessing Comparable Efforts Framework” to estimate mitigation costs for individual countries, based, inter alia, on mitigation potential and baseline emissions.
Chair Stoycheva announced that Rawleston Moore (Barbados) and Jaap Rooimans (the Netherlands) would co-chair the contact group on the Special Climate Change Fund, and that Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) and Jos e9 Romero (Switzerland) would co-chair the informal consultation on the LDC Fund.
The draft decision on criteria for joint implementation, adopted in future document A/AC.237/WG.1/L.29, recommends that COP-1 continue consideration of JI criteria based on views expressed and three separate draft texts, future documents A/AC.237/WG.I/L.30 from the G-77 and China, A/AC.237/WG.1/L.31 from the EU and A/AC.237/WG.1/L.32 from the US.
Jack Fitzgerald, US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), briefed participants on the UNFCCC Guidelines 92 reporting requirements on information and networking.
 The SBI takes note of information presented on support provided by the GEF (FCCC/SBI/2011/L.39 and FCCC/SBI/2011/L.41) and recommends that the COP request the GEF to continue to provide financial resources to developing countries through the LDC Fund and Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF).
The EU and New Zealand urged prioritizing attention to the most vulnerable countries.
Much of the discussion centered on a proposal from the EU for a 15% emissions cut for a "basket" of three greenhouse gases (GHGs) by the year 2010 compared to 1990 levels.
KENYA stressed availability cost and the potential for strengthening renewable technology.
BOLIVIA called for concentrating on increasing ambition.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the EU, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said their statements would be uploaded to the UNFCCC website.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, observed that discussions are now becoming more concrete, which he said was necessary to fulfill the Paris Agreement mandates.
 The EU draft (A/AC.237/WG.I/L.31) initiates a JI pilot phase immediately after COP-1 open to Annex I Parties and others that volunteer to participate.
AUSTRALIA suggested that apart from the questions raised in the expert review teams 92 (ERT) reports, questions could be raised by a Party only with regard to itself.
One developing country suggested that, in addition to LDCs, SIDS and Africa, “developing countries with areas prone to droughts, floods and desertification with fragile ecosystems, and facing increased frequency of extreme and catastrophic events and trends linked to climate change” should be included as priority recipients.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested deleting text on periodic overviews and stressed the need to focus on implementation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, noted that vulnerable countries are “leading the way to put the Paris Agreement into action.”
CUBA, QATAR and SAUDI ARABIA opposed any attempt to compel developing countries to take on “voluntary commitments.” The REPUBLIC OF KOREA recognized that voluntary commitments was a sensitive issue, but there would be a need for global participation over time.
With New Zealand and the US, Canada supported a seller regime complemented by an effective compliance system.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA and SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO said that the Croatian emissions estimates and projections are based on emissions not originating in Croatia 92s territory.
On working towards a draft negotiating text, the G-77/CHINA said this was premature, since Parties were still at the stage of making submissions, noting convergence/divergence and synthesizing views.
On work in 2017, many countries suggested workshops, with BRAZIL proposing workshops for parties only and the US a “non-intrusive” facilitated sharing of views.
BURKINA FASO and SENEGAL emphasized consideration of all types of forest for REDD.
UGANDA questioned the possibility of achieving a meaningful outcome under the ADP without goodwill and political commitment.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for coordination between the AWGs and stressed that the agreement should capture the full range of mitigation efforts, with common architecture and obligations grounding the common responsibility of all countries to mitigate climate change.
On policies and measures (P&amp;Ms), the EU said the participation of non-Annex I Parties in workshops would allow for a valuable exchange of information.
AOSIS and the African Group highlighted the need to extend the CGE’s term at least until 2016 and said its mandate should encompass a number of roles.
 NEW ZEALAND welcomed the strong statement of commitment.
EGYPT expressed concern about the Convention’s future, called on developed countries to take the lead on mitigation, and suggested that the different non-papers be integrated and addressed together.
He stressed that the EU needs comparability of efforts or at least common ground to define and measure commitments and believes it is unwise to start from scratch on rules in the AWG-LCA context, given the maturity of the Kyoto Protocol rules.
JAPAN stressed that the post-2012 legal framework must bring together results from both tracks or his country may not be in a position to join it.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, concurred.
\t\tThe UK proposed, and delegates agreed, to include reference to ef bf bdany \t\tleakage ef bf bd from transport.
He provided views on the draft decision to the GEF on the operation of the LDC Fund.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed accountability.
JAPAN opposed separating human-induced and natural effects, while SWITZERLAND underscored that the integrity of the Protocol depends on their separation.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted equal treatment for mitigation and adaptation technologies and emphasized the need to establish a technology transfer mechanism under the Convention.
Canada, the US, EU, New Zealand, and Australia said that cross-cutting elements of mitigation and adaptation should be addressed and that a side event would be helpful in advancing knowledge on these elements.
Switzerland, for the EIG, and the EU regretted lack of agreement on including agriculture on the SBSTA agenda.
Highlighting the adaptation finance gap, MALI called for greater transparency and common methodologies.
CANADA said that reporting should take place within specified time frames and be addressed by the SBI.
The \t\tproposals were compiled and bracketed, along with the EU proposal for a \t\tthree-year cycle for national communications.
Indicating that this procedural request should be presented in draft conclusions by the chair, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested time to verify the correct procedural steps.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said two decades of negotiations had not produced the expected results, and developed countries were not meeting even the modest goals agreed in Kyoto.
The EU expressed \t\tregret that not all parties could agree to the 2 baC objective, and AOSIS \t\tadded that for vulnerable countries a 2 baC increase is too high.
JAPAN, supported by AUSTRALIA, requested specific calculations on funding dedicated to the working capital reserve.
JAPAN noted the need to deepen understanding of impacts of response measures on all parties, saying that national communications may be an appropriate channel.
He, and the EU, noted the lack of a double threshold for compliance.
JAPAN, BANGLADESH and CANADA stressed country-specific approaches.
ICELAND, with NORWAY and the EU, stressed a forward-looking perspective and gender balance.
MAURITANIA asked how transparency of and accountability for the investment will be ensured.
NORWAY, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NEW ZEALAND and others noted that where emission reductions take place is irrelevant for the atmosphere.
BRAZIL noted that the finance component of the contributions is restrained by national budgetary cycles, as well as GCF and GEF replenishment cycles.
Noting positive GEF reforms resulting in increased access to funds for LDCs, the Gambia expressed hope that the fifth replenishment would enhance funding under the Least Developed Country Fund.
BRAZIL called for predictability of finance.
TUVALU underscored that his motives for insisting on proper consideration of this issue are sincere rather than to “seek media attention.” He also commended COP President Hedegaard for her personal commitment to success in Copenhagen.
MEXICO said interlinkages between adaptation and mitigation, renewed and reinforced collective commitments, national commitments, and adaptation finance should be reflected in the e2 80 9cprotocol.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, said that public funding should be used for the readiness phase and multiple sources for full implementation.
Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported deleting inconsistencies with the BAP and the Convention.
The AFRICAN GROUP noted key elements to operationalize the global goal on adaptation were missing.
The COP also elected members to the Adaptation Committee, Adaptation Fund Board, Advisory Board to the CTCN, Consultative Group of Experts (CGE), Compliance Committee, both the facilitative and enforcement branches, Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Executive Board, WIM Executive Committee (ExCom), Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, Technology Executive Committee (TEC), LDC Expert Group (LEG), and Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples (LCIP) Platform Facilitative Working Group.
Chair Thorgeirsson said Richard Bradley (US) would undertake informal consultations on this issue.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the AWG-KP’s mandate and stressed that a second commitment period must be established under the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012 as the basis for comparable Annex I emission reduction commitments.
The UK, with Belgium, Luxembourg, Japan, Norway, Spain, Ireland, Sweden, Congo and others, called for clear reference in chapter two on mitigation pathways to a warming of 2     c2 b0C for comparison purposes.
The EU and G-77/China underscored that future work on P&amp;Ms should contribute to an assessment of demonstrable progress of Annex I Parties in achieving their Protocol commitments.
THAILAND called for establishing a demand-driven financial mechanism, accountable to the COP and ensuring direct access.
MALAYSIA commented that parameters are changing regularly.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA cautioned against elevating particular paragraphs and said that if emphasis was being placed on "scientific uncertainty" then perhaps Article 3.3 on precauthionary measures should also be considered.
The EU, and some of its member States such as SPAIN and ITALY, strongly endorsed the SAR as the basis for a protocol and urged decisive action.
  In the morning, Co-Facilitator Andrew Rakestraw (US) presented the first iteration of draft text and explained that a second iteration would be developed in the evening.
CROATIA said the flexibility mechanisms must be equitable, i.e., open, transparent, verifiable and non- discriminatory.
On supplementarity, the EU said he anticipated that up to 4% of the 20% target would come from international credits and that were the EU to move to a 30% target, the share would rise to 9%.
 The PHILIPPINES, supported by INDONESIA and BRAZIL, said the SAR should be used as a comprehensive whole and not selectively.
Several delegations, including CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, COSTA RICA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, acknowledged the cooperative efforts of non-Annex I Parties and endorsed their expanded reporting responsibilities.
 The US, supported by CANADA, called for a decision on the rules of procedure.
On homework, the LDCs and CHINA called for targeted submissions, with SOUTH AFRICA suggesting inviting submissions after COP 22.
Following requests by New Zealand, Australia, the US and the EU, informal consultations were held on the agenda of the upcoming workshop on synergies.
 \t\tGermany highlighted the question of how to achieve the UNFCCC 92s ultimate \t\tobjective, and stressed that it was not the EU 92s intention to negotiate \t\tits 2oC target.
COLOMBIA highlighted that pre-2020 support will help developing countries strengthen their post-2020 ambition.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of publicly funded technologies and support to the private sector.
Bangladesh highlighted the high cost of operationalizing CDM projects, including the registration fee and validation by a Designated Operational Entity and called for exemptions for the LDCs.
COLOMBIA said adaptation activities should be based on priorities identified in national communications.
SBI also \t\tnotes that regional workshops are essential to advance the \t\timplementation of Article 6 activities, and invites Parties and others \t\tin a position to do so, to contribute to financing the remaining \t\tworkshops, which address the needs of Asia, Latin America and the \t\tmembers of AOSIS.
MAURITANIA, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that lack of funding and support for inventory compilation and national communications significantly influenced accuracy of the data and the rate at which progress was being made.
The UK also expressed concern with scheduling two sessions – IPCC-32 in October 2010 and WG III session for approval and acceptance of the Special Report on renewable energy in December 2010 – too close to each other.
He said some developed countries, particularly the US, have not included binding measures in their proposals and emphasized the EU’s conviction that P&amp;Ms should be included to fully encompass the Berlin Mandate and Geneva Declaration.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, with Tanzania and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
The Secretariat and POLAND provided details on the workshop to be held in July in Poznan, Poland, and the Secretariat outlined the process for the 1 August submissions.
 \t\tContinuing the presentation, Co-Chair Metz noted that, on electricity \t\tcosts, assumptions of oil prices at US$15 - 20 per barrel could not be \t\tchanged given a lack of literature.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized the need for the ADP to complete its mandate e2 80 9cas early as possible e2 80 9d and opposed elaborating decisions for adoption by COP 21.
The US also issued a non-paper on the BM process.
WGIII Co-Chair Jim Skea (UK) said the WGIII TSU was “well established” to support the IPCC’s work and reported that the WGIII TSU host institution is Imperial College London, UK.
He said that SICA countries are voluntarily using their own resources for mitigation activities.
In its conclusions (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.18), SBSTA called on the Secretariat to continue its collaboration with the OECD 92s Development Assistance Committee to provide comprehensive data.
The EU suggested conceptual discussions for the global stocktake, and JAPAN said work on transparency and accounting guidance required rapid progress.
MEXICO suggested sessions on mitigation and adaptation respectively, with technology and finance to be considered in each.
SINGAPORE, opposed by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested deleting e2 80 9cscaling-up, e2 80 9d and the EU suggested replacing it with e2 80 9cenhancing.
On a paragraph with three options relating to information to be provided in INDCs, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for referencing sections of the text on support.
 On the possible gap between commitment periods, the AFRICAN GROUP said the Secretariat’s paper contained possible solutions.
On the sub-item dealing with the consideration of the fifth compilation and synthesis of initial national communications, the G-77/China, opposed by the US, objected to a document tabled by the Secretariat on steps taken by non-Annex I Parties to reduce emissions.
The US also \t\tproposed a recommendation that sessions of the subsidiary bodies and \t\tworkshops be scheduled 93so as to minimize weekend travel wherever \t\tpossible.
SWITZERLAND stressed that non-big-ticket items should not be overlooked and, supported by CANADA, suggested that further elaboration of some items may be necessary before parties could provide their views on the topic.
Governments also addressed the importance of defining key vulnerabilities in the report, and the US raised concern with the lack of a definition on key risks, and a reference to these was deleted from the outline.
The US \t\t\tand others noted that data on solar radiative forcing was extremely \t\t\tgood after the satellite era.
BOLIVIA said the problem was one of substance, not just procedure, highlighting that the Danish texts did not reflect the outcome of a democratic or participatory process.
CANADA and the EU argued that this issue is adequately addressed by previous decisions.
He \t\talso called for a support fund to help SIDS recover from extreme events.
BANGLADESH requested clarification on the future of the Adaptation Fund in case of a gap.
GHANA, supported by JAPAN, said joint partnerships \t\tbetween developed and developing countries are essential to overcome \t\tbarriers posed by intellectual property rights.
Papua New Guinea, Turkey and Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the importance of the paragraph and, with Yemen, supported the suggestion by the Russian Federation.
The UK, \t\t\tsupported by Germany and Belgium, called for a statement at the end \t\t\tof the section to indicate that there are other warming \t\t\tpossibilities outside the SRES scenarios.
The US said text on a shared vision should be concise and decisional, derived from the BAP building blocks, and include a long-term global goal for emission reductions.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU said targets should be based on \t\tsound science.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, inter alia, called for an action-oriented NWP and identified the need to strengthen linkages between the NWP and SBI.
On a draft proposal for a COP decision on the establishment of an LDC Expert Group, including an annex containing terms of reference for the group, a number of Annex I Parties raised concerns.
JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA and others also opposed discussions by the contact group of issues relating to the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
AUSTRALIA raised the issue of spatial and temporal discontinuities under Article 3.3 and the need to avoid perverse incentives.
The US queried if studies extend \t\t\tthrough 2050 for the power sector, and the Lead Authors responded \t\t\tthat such information was available, citing a major study by the \t\t\tInternational Energy Agency.
On the preambular text in the ADP decision, which references the Convention’s principles, the US stated that this cannot affect the mandate given to the ADP under the Durban Platform and will not be the basis on which the US will engage in the work of the ADP.
INDONESIA said REDD-plus should not be part of NAMAs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the importance of capitalizing on Cancun’s momentum and urged parties to ensure full operationalization of the Cancun Agreements and the realization of the BAP, while ensuring environmental integrity.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and INDIA underscored the importance of common accounting rules for comparability.
Noting that the SBSTA Vice-Chair had resigned, he said a replacement nomination was expected from GRULAC.
BOLIVIA emphasized that the ambition of developed country commitments and the adoption of a second commitment period are not just technical matters, but are dependent on political will.
Noting his country 92s reliance on fossil fuel exports, LIBYA urged Annex I Parties to abolish subsidies and tax policies that are discriminatory, and to avoid responses to climate change that have harmful impacts.
Many developing countries supported further work on common accounting rules, with SOUTH AFRICA calling for considering comparability and compliance.
Noting that the text was a good basis for negotiations, the EU and CANADA said several elements had not been included in the revised text.
GERMANY, supported by AUSTRALIA, stated that close cooperation between the IPCC and SBSTA was crucial, stressing the need to maintain a clear division of labor between them.
CHILE noted that Article 14 requires Parties to settle disputes through negotiation or “any other peaceful means” and an MCP could provide this type of advisory service.
 MALAYSIA noted the delay in formation of the TAPs will effect the AGBM\'s analysis work.
The EIG suggested the CMA take stock of implementation of the agreement to assess aggregate progress.
The EU, NORWAY, the US and AUSTRALIA suggested this question warrants further discussion noting, inter alia, that it is best considered in light of the overall climate finance architecture; and requires consideration of lessons learned.
JAPAN called for enhanced transparency over mitigation actions, and improved cooperation, including outside the UNFCCC.
Noting the lack of time to consider this matter, the G-77/ CHINA objected to consideration of elements of a draft decision.
The G-77/CHINA underlined inefficient funding and implementation of existing mechanisms.
The EU underscored the relevance of highlighting the continuous increase in climate finance flows, with the US adding the assessment’s findings were the result of a comprehensive exercise and adopted by consensus by the SCF.
SAUDI ARABIA supported the adoption of a just and comprehensive agreement, which should comply with the principles and the text of the Convention and Bali Action Plan (BAP).
In addition to proposals from the floor, previous submissions by parties (FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/MISC.5) and recent submissions (from the EU, AOSIS and Brazil) were also included.
AUSTRALIA recognized the impact of single projects on small economies and supported establishing guidelines and methodologies to specify circumstances under which single projects could be accommodated.
The EU highlighted the importance of a transition and continuity of rules, institutions and mechanisms.
AUSTRALIA suggested language for a new paragraph allowing a voluntary review for each year subsequent to the pre-commitment period and prior to the first inventory due under the Protocol.
MOROCCO, in the capacity of the future host of COP 22/CMP 12, thanked parties, in particular the African Group, for their trust, informing that the conference would take place in Marrakesh, from 7-18 November 2016.
The US, with CANADA, proposed examining ef bf bdwin-win ef bf bd \t\topportunities.
The Gambia, for LDCs, expressed disappointment that work on national adaptation plans has not moved forward as much as hoped.
 The US called for the development of an ongoing work plan on technologies and consideration of the host of organizations that can contribute.
INDONESIA supported an ecosystem-based approach and community-based activities, and said the dynamic relationship between oceans and climate change should be reflected in the outcome.
At COP 7, amid the vacuum left by the US departure from the Kyoto Protocol, parties bent over backwards to facilitate ratifications by Canada, Japan and the Russian Federation, and lauded EU leadership.
The EU supported reporting on, but not accounting for, non-CO2 greenhouse gases.
The US said that it could not accept 2(d) until there is agreement on 2(e).
During statements, Maldives, for AOSIS, SWITZERLAND, and the EU called for a COP decision on the outcome of the Talanoa Dialogue.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged developed countries to make ambitious emission reduction targets at the scale required by science, and called on all parties to put the interests of vulnerable countries at the same level as their own interests.
e2 80 9d The EU said issues around Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8 (methodological issues under the Protocol) should first be resolved.
The EU called for a focus on elements that are relevant for the work on technology by the AWG-LCA and said the GEF should seek a more balanced approach to mitigation and adaptation technologies.
BRAZIL emphasized that the process in the SBSTA must not be prejudged and that it is necessary to maintain coherent reporting guidelines under the Convention and Protocol.
SWITZERLAND said there is no need for differentiation on adaptation, noting that commitments are intended to facilitate preparation for adaptation actions without being burdensome.
Participants discussed key issues in the two documents that could be included in the decision, such as the G-77/China’s suggestion of a non-Annex I expert group and the EU’s proposal for technical assessments.
On adaptation and mitigation \t\t\tbeing complementary, the UK also suggested changing text to avoid \t\t\tthe impression that there would not be benefits from mitigation for \t\t\t60 years.
SAMOA welcomed the development of \t\tsoftware and called for support to Least Developed Countries, in \t\tparticular for setting up more effective data collection and management \t\tsystems.
A contact group co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Walid Al-Malik (UAE) will further discuss these issues.
 With regard to reviewing the budget, the EU noted that the composition of the ACABQ did not coincide with the Parties to the Convention.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed concern that some agenda items have matured while others have stalled.
COSTA RICA and INDONESIA highlighted the role of ecosystem services in adaptation.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, requested a detailed compilation and synthesis regarding all national communications to date.
ZIMBABWE noted the need for regional down-scaling of models to aid in assessing vulnerability and adaptation options.
GEORGIA said non-Annex I parties from Eastern Europe had been excluded from the process and requested their inclusion in the composition of the CGE.
INDIA called for discussion of financing and, with CHINA, suggested clarifying which activities qualify as REDD-plus.
On the \t\treview of COP decisions, the G-77/China supported reviewing all COP \t\tdecisions, while the EU, the US, Japan, and others said that the \t\tframework for implementation was the starting point, since it already \t\tconsidered previous decisions.
The MEF was launched by US President Obama in March 2009 to facilitate dialogue among major developed and developing economies and generate political leadership needed to achieve a successful outcome in Copenhagen.
 The Conference also saw a significant shift in position by the US, which for the first time supported a legally-binding agreement to fulfill the Berlin Mandate.
Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on the work mandated in Durban, including on a science-based Review narrow in scope.
The G-77/CHINA said there is a need for substantive discussions on implementation of the decision, with a view to building on existing work.
BANGLADESH requested text identifying a preference in financing for LDCs and SIDS.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed it as the GEF would not be able to provide the support the IPCC required.
Regarding economic diversification, Saudi Arabia highlighted links to risk management and AOSIS supported identification of options to enhance capacity for diversification.
NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA opposed a e2 80 9cbifurcated approach, e2 80 9d noting INDCs are already nationally-determined.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called on parties to finalize the design and operationalization of the essential functions of the new mechanisms established by the Cancun Agreements.
South Africa, on behalf of the AFRICAN GROUP, announced its proposal for a consolidated adaptation work programme.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, urged parties to address outstanding issues under the AWG-LCA, taking into account equity, common but differentiated responsibilities and historical responsibility.
JAPAN proposed language on project implementation status and the provision of information from the sub-national level.
The G-77/CHINA and EU objected, noting the importance of capacity-building experts agreeing on the text first.
HUNGARY noted that the soft commitments of 1992 will expire in 2000 and called for elaboration of new commitments undertaken in Kyoto by COP-4.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, highlighted the Protocol as the most important legal instrument addressing climate change and called on Annex I countries to respect their legal commitment to a second commitment period.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC expressed its preference for including the two additional sentences.
The US, supported by the EU, Norway and others, suggested increasing the proportion of meetings in developing countries.
The EU argued that Article 4 is not a mechanism, and, commenting on Argentina 92s intervention, said good faith is not sufficient due to inclusion of market-based mechanisms in the Protocol.
The EUROPEAN UNION (EU) highlighted draft decision text on all Paris Agreement items as a key objective.
The EU said a long-term goal based on 2ºC requires reductions of at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, which implies urgent short-term actions.
The EU said SBSTA should use a wide range of approaches and methodologies, including case-studies, technical papers, and workshops, and should draw on activities being developed by stakeholders.
KUWAIT stated that the creation of another institution would be burdensome and noted that any group formed should be linked to the SBI.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the significant negative impacts of carbon taxes and tariffs, and noted that such measures constitute disguised protectionism.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed hope that ministers will be able to take the necessary political decisions.
Angola, for the LDCs, looked forward to engaging in “the work that remains to be done on the draft text in addition to some political decision making.” TURKEY stressed “making this an inclusive agreement where no country is left behind.”
On the EU and Canadian papers, he noted commonality on reporting, monitoring and verification.
The US also argued that this goal was intended to inspire and guide, but was not an operational directive to divide rights to the atmosphere based on a formula.
COLOMBIA, with the EU and CHILE, opposed by VENEZUELA and BOLIVIA, proposed dividing time equally between the consideration of non-market mechanisms and new market-based mechanisms.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted the issue of \t\tvoluntary commitments, and Chair Zammit Cutajar confirmed that informal \t\tnegotiations on voluntary commitments would be held, with details on the \t\tnegotiations pending.
Responding to a query by Germany and the US, Acting Chair El Gizouli and Secretary Christ explained that establishing additional TSUs was a common IPCC practice, and recalled the establishment of TSUs for the AR5 SYR and for the LULUCF SR.
INDONESIA opposed discussion of issues under consideration by the AWG-LCA, such as agriculture, but supported consultations on the agenda.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that important issues have been left out of the agreement, but expressed certainty that parties will address these issues.
INDIA underscored that the CDM market depends on deep emission reductions by Annex I countries in the post-2012 period.
On the Review of Information on Assigned Amounts, NEW ZEALAND sought a reference to Article 4 (joint fulfillment) to ensure transparency on the distribution of assigned amounts between members of the agreement.
With BRAZIL and the US, she questioned the role of the ERTs in the process of referral since they were concerned only with technical information.
COP President Baalu welcomed delegates to the first ministerial round table under the theme "Taking Stock," co-chaired by Minister Margaret Beckett (UK).
COLOMBIA indicated that there should be no new commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
TUNISIA reported an average annual 2.2% decrease in carbon intensity since 1994 and noted the usefulness of the ICA process.
TUVALU, with INDIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, supported anchoring existing institutions in the agreement.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the UK, identified two screening processes: the channeling of a case to the proper forum and assessing if a case is unfounded or de minimis.
CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA and TURKEY, noted that the text was a good starting point and reflected a balanced view.
The UK said that others, including the UNFCCC, would decide on the implications of using the 2019 Refinement, while Norway stressed the need to protect the integrity of the IPCC by keeping the purview of the UNFCCC and the IPCC separate.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized commitment to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDRRC), and procedural transparency and inclusiveness.
MALAYSIA called it “regrettable” that the AGBM is still exchanging views and is unable to narrow down policies and measures.
The EU favored making mitigation measures the strategic option for the GEF and placed highest priority on long-term activities.
The US called for the mechanisms to be designed cost effectively and developing countries to participate meaningfully.
UZBEKISTAN envisaged the MCP as a process that renders consultative services to Parties and called for a special group with wide geographic representation to address issues of law, economics, ecology and social issues.
GHANA suggested that the SCCF provide resources to non-Annex I Parties not identified as LDCs to enable them to prepare their adaptation plans and strategies.
The US and INDIA noted that some paragraph options could be further streamlined.
EGYPT noted that substance should be discussed before interlinkages and, with VENEZUELA, stressed that there should be “one outcome in one process” and not “different outcomes in different processes."
 The G-77/CHINA stressed the importance of the review, but noted that the document was received rather late and full consideration could not be completed immediately.
Spain with the US, Saint Lucia \t\t\tand others, requested adding text on fisheries.
The EU supported drawing on the work of the SBs and the new bodies, including the Adaptation Committee, and said that a transformation in growth, development and investment needs to be facilitated.
BHUTAN urged technical and financial support for adaptation efforts, and said immediate concerns include a lack of meteorological and hydrological data and the necessity of early warning systems for natural disaster management.
The EU suggested: establishment and purpose; mandate, scope and structure; and modalities of the arrangements.
Noting that parties may not achieve all they hoped for, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for: a solution to the carry-over of surplus AAUs that ensures the environmental integrity of the second commitment period; building on lessons learned from fast-start finance; and developing a path for finance for 2020.
TUVALU expressed concern at the possible creation of loopholes under the mechanisms.
\t\tThe G-77/CHINA and AOSIS noted the importance of addressing financial, \t\ttechnical, and institutional constraints.
SWITZERLAND suggested reflecting other \t\tfuture processes in the AWG ef bf bds work programme and CANADA proposed \t\tcoordinating their timeframes.
ETHIOPIA called for clear communication by developed countries on the amount and sources of their finance commitments.
ef bf bd NORWAY and AUSTRALIA said that project participants, the host Party or a designated legal entity should monitor.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, with Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), recommended that parties commence work on the items traditionally included in the SBSTA agenda while consulting on the proposed new items.
HUNGARY supported the US’s long-term goal for atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations.
The G-77/CHINA called for scaled-up finance, technology and capacity.
Mexico, for the EIG, stated the movement for climate action is unstoppable because climate action is the correct social policy, morally a categorical imperative and economically rational.
 \t\tThe US expressed gratitude to the \t\tExecutive Secretary for her comments on the financial implications of \t\tthe adopted conclusions.
JAPAN said principles should be simple and add value to the text.
Suggesting that the text is a good start, SAUDI ARABIA called for further work to be conducted in a party-driven process and for progress on response measures, as one of the main elements of the Bali Action Plan and as part of a complete package.
The US recommended focusing on the draft conclusions rather than on possible decision text, since progress on the annexes was unlikely.
INDIA called for INDCs addressing all elements of the agreement with differentiated information for developed and developing countries but with identical timeframes.
The US said all parties in a position to do so should be invited to support others with lower capabilities.
BURKINA FASO underscored the importance of establishing and strengthening national and regional institutions for, inter alia, research on climate change and its adverse effects.
SWITZERLAND added “past efforts” by countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as another criterion.
The G-77/CHINA noted that issues under discussion in the various drafting groups had been captured in the AWG-LCA’s text on the core decision (FCCC/AWGLCA/2009/L.7/Rev.1) in a way that did not fully reflect the understanding reached in the negotiating groups.
The US said many Parties regarded the CGE as a useful group, and supported its activities.
AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, proposed deleting chapeau language on an assessment of demonstrable progress.
 \t\t\tThe US supported defining the \t\t\tUNFCCC’s role on adaptation, in order for parties to be able to move \t\t\tforward.
 JAPAN: Sukio Iwadare, Minister of State, Director General of the Environment Agency, urged the COP to shift its emphasis from analysis and assessment to negotiation by consolidating the points and proposals.
The EU supported the use of biome-specific forest definitions.
In the afternoon, the EU noted the need to consider, inter alia, access to information, institutional arrangements, a transparent process, sound national policies, an investment shift to clean energy, and new sources of financing.
On the decision requesting the Secretariat, under the guidance of the Chair of the SBSTA and in collaboration with relevant international and intergovernmental organisations, to support future work on P&amp;Ms by organizing, inter alia, workshops and side events, the EU, supported by the US, CANADA and JAPAN, proposed removing reference to specific international organizations.
The following dignitaries addressed the event: UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, US President Barack Obama, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, Indian Prime Minister Monmohan Singh, Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, South African President Jacob Zuma, South Korean President Myung-bak Lee, Grenadian Prime Minister Tillman Thomas, Sudanese Assistant President Nafie Ali Nafie, European Commission President José Manuel Barroso.
On ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA announced its ratification.
The G-77/CHINA and AILAC suggested technical experts could serve as triggers, and SWITZERLAND added the Secretariat.
BRAZIL said the COP/MOP had a role in referral although its size and the frequency of its meetings might jeopardize the efficiency of the compliance system.
With regard to evidence of consequences, Australia, the EU and Japan highlighted the need for evidence of negative consequences, while the G-77/China and others voiced concern with this proposal.
Brazil, Panama, India and the EU identified the UNFCCC as the right forum for bunker fuel discussions.
Argentina, supported by \t\tthe EU, and opposed by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, proposed reflecting in \t\tthe conclusions that emissions from international aviation and maritime \t\ttransport would be addressed by SBSTA-21.
She said that because focus was given to streamlining rather than to negotiations due to limited time, many issues important to SIDS were left out.
AUSTRIA noted that if an MCP advises Parties on solving problems then questions of individual performance must be part of the procedure.
CHINA said that NAMAs should be country-driven, reflecting developing countries’ priorities.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that the amendments made by the G-77 and China and the AOSIS would prove to be time effective for the AGBM process.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, stressed that he fears a “mitigation-centric regime in the making,” where the urgent adaptation needs of developing countries are relegated to “second-class status.” He underscored that efforts to strengthen the regime must recall the principles of CBDR and equity.
The EU proposed identifying paragraphs for different kinds of decisions.
Under the section on input, the G-77/CHINA proposed that an options paper be compiled on modalities for crediting LULUCF units under the CDM.
 In sub-paragraph 1(d)(ii), the EU added that the SBSTA provide advice to the COP and the SBI.
The EU noted progress in gaining a better understanding of some ideas such as REDD, a NAMA registry and technology transfer.
The EU argued that Article 4 is not a mechanism and, commenting on ARGENTINA ef bf bds intervention, said good faith it not sufficient due to inclusion of market-based mechanisms in the Protocol.
Initially only some developing countries supported the AOSIS protocol.
He said the AOSIS proposal for a new protocol: covers all elements of the Bali Action Plan as well as other critical elements; represents a compromise among AOSIS members; and also reflects many other parties’ views.
CHINA noted the meaningful participation of the G-77/CHINA in the negotiation process.
JAPAN and SWITZERLAND proposed a single body exercising its facilitative and enforcement functions in a graduated manner.
Germany, the UK, the Authors \t\tand others opposed, with the UK noting that the issue was not addressed \t\tby WGII precisely because it was considered a cross-cutting issue to be \t\taddressed in the synthesis.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tSAUDI ARABIA stressed the workshop’s informal nature and CHINA said \t\t\tthere should be no follow up.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for \t\ta new mechanism allowing countries to take voluntary emissions \t\tcommitments.
JORDAN, with CHINA and INDIA, opposed any ex ante review processes.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for agreement on a REDD+ decision in Cancún.
The G-77/CHINA, EU and SAUDI ARABIA presented their respective positions on some of the issues, highlighting the agreement reached on elements of the "crunch issues," as well as noting the elements they felt were missing from President Pronk ef bf bds informal note.
Barbados, for AOSIS, noted that negotiations had reached a “critical juncture” and expressed “serious concern” with the pace, considering that only eleven days of negotiating time remain before Copenhagen.
ARGENTINA stressed its support for the G-77 and China statement and said that the analyses and assessments should proceed "side-by-side" with negotiations.
During closing statements, Burkina Faso, for the LDCs, and Grenada, on behalf of AOSIS, urged developed country parties to come to Poznan ready to make quantitative reduction commitments.
Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, called for ambition and a balance between mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
The US proposed three clusters on: long-term vision; mitigation, finance and technology; and adaptation and related financing and technology issues.
CANADA added that it would like to see a refined negotiating text at COP-6.
ECUADOR, BOLIVIA, the PHILIPPINES, INDIA, MEXICO and many others highlighted the need for a safeguard on avoiding forest conversion, with BRAZIL proposing to “ensure that the actions are consistent with the conservation of native forests.” PERU and BRAZIL underscored that this does not prohibit sustainable management of forests.
Republic of Korea, also for the EIG, said lessons learned through the facilitative sharing of views would help inform the transparency work under the Paris Agreement and encouraged parties to participate.
CHINA, with the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and NEW ZEALAND, said Parties should be the main initiators.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, the EU and the Umbrella Group, welcomed the FSV as well as the ToR for the PCCB.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a “comprehensive and durable” outcome in Copenhagen and identified the need for coherence between the AWGs.
The UK, France, Slovenia and others supported inclusion of external members, with perhaps different terms of office, in order to bring fresh insights and provide helpful input.
The US congratulated the concerned states for this submission, saying it represents “a significant shift” in their positions and efforts to address climate change.
AUSTRALIA, the US and JAPAN opposed including provisions on intellectual property rights (IPRs) in the 2015 agreement.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, asked for keeping the new sub-section on LULUCF in the text.
BRAZIL, with GRENADA, suggested conceptual clarity around “accounting,” with BRAZIL stressing work should focus on tracking progress, not counting units.
BOLIVIA introduced the Climate Justice mechanism, a proposal that operates on the principle of equity.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with SOUTH AFRICA and THAILAND, stated that issues of competitiveness must be addressed.
FINLAND endorsed enhancing women’s role as agents for change.
Continuing the discussions in the afternoon, TUVALU identified a “clear need” to establish a finance board whose primary role would be to oversee MRV of finance.
INDONESIA highlighted the importance of considering enabling environments in developed countries and at the global level to mobilize finance and technology.
\t\t\tRegarding ice sheets, the UK, supported by Switzerland, explained \t\t\tthat referencing dynamical ice loss as half the cause of Greenland’s \t\t\tnet mass loss could be misleading because it suggests that only half \t\t\tof the overall process is understood.
VENEZUELA, for LMDC, supported by MAURITIUS, emphasized that developed countries’ emission reductions should be based on domestic actions and called for delivery of means of implementation.
The UMBRELLA GROUP stressed the need to deliver a decision providing guidance for communicating INDCs.
NEW ZEALAND said the use of market approaches supports concepts embedded in the Convention, including common but differentiated responsibilities and promotion of sustainable development.
QATAR, EGYPT and ALGERIA opposed new commitments and urged Parties to operationalize UNFCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects).
Norway, Germany, Denmark, New Zealand, Chile, Slovenia, the EU and Sweden supported the sentence as presented.
The US and ECUADOR welcomed the compromise.
URUGUAY noted the need to transfer concrete emissions reduction projects, not just reports.
SINGAPORE noted that some parties’ submissions went beyond the principles agreed in Doha.
ARGENTINA stressed that the ADP’s work must be in line with the Convention and its principles, reflecting CBDRRC and, in a balanced manner, all elements in Decision 1/CP.17 (mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology, transparency of action and support, and capacity-building).
On the mandate of the enforcement branch, the G-77/CHINA stated the branch should only deal with Annex I Parties.
On the synthesis report of the information provided by countries participating in the National Economic, Environment and Development Study (NEEDS) for Climate Change Project, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed disappointment that the benefits could not be extended.
 SBSTA resumed discussion of AIJ following a meeting of the G-77/CHINA.
The US said government organizations are also eligible \t\tfor participation as observers under UNFCCC Article 7.6 (participation \t\tof observers).
Australia, speaking for the UMBRELLA GROUP, pointed out that the Durban compromise included an agreement for a new negotiation process.
Opposed by the LMDCs and the EIG, the AFRICAN GROUP supported a roundtable.
GRENADA expressed disappointment at the Chair’s decision not to convene informal discussions in the afternoon.
NIGERIA, GHANA and the MALDIVES highlighted their participation in the study on investment and financial flow to address climate change, and called for a follow-up.
Belize, for AOSIS, called for a goal for climate finance that will keep temperature rise below 1.5 c2 b0C.
AUSTRALIA said this issue should be for individual developing countries to decide, and underlined that US silence on the matter did not necessarily indicate a lack of support for the issue.
NORWAY, opposed by SAMOA, suggested removing reference to election of alternate Board members.
PALAU noted the \t\tmerit of granting the Ramsar Convention full membership at the JLG.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by CHINA, INDIA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, BRAZIL, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA, GHANA, SAMOA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, VENEZUELA, MEXICO, ZIMBABWE, SENEGAL, IRAN, NIGERIA, THAILAND, MAURITIUS, the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA, ALGERIA, CHILE and KUWAIT, stressed that the AGBM’s work must remain within the Berlin Mandate.
The COMOROS noted that adaptation is crucial for many \t\tvulnerable countries.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the meeting should delineate the elements of the 2015 agreement and identify what can be elaborated in COP decisions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, and MAURITIUS emphasized the need for capacity building for LDCs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for bold action and a strong legally-binding outcome that provides clarity on rules for the flexibility mechanisms and for land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF).
The text proposed by the EU and G-77/China on terms of reference for a workshop on P&amp;Ms was not adopted.
KOREA and NIGERIA stressed that emissions trading should supplement national reductions and cautioned that rules to govern it must be defined in advance to avoid compliance and verification problems.
AUSTRALIA said that while it did not intend to ratify the Protocol, it was still committed to achieving its emission target under the Protocol.
Regarding the draft decision, delegates accepted text proposed by the US acknowledging completion of the BAPA requirements.
INDIA drew attention to “substantial differences” remaining and “large quantities” of bracketed text, saying this shows that the AWG-KP track has fallen behind.
Switzerland, for the EIG, described this as “a good starting point” and informed that the Republic of Korea joined the submission.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need to develop basic tools for emission inventories in major economies.
AOSIS proposed that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement (CMA) conduct a process to facilitate the understanding of INDCs.
JAPAN, supported by many parties, suggested inviting submissions from parties on good practices and lessons learned, as input for the interim review.
Papua New Guinea asked the US to 93get out of the way 94 \t\tif it was not willing to lead.
BRAZIL, opposed by AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported distinguishing between facilitation available to Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
The US suggested that a workshop be held on the prioritization of activities and on setting a work programme.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, supported a consolidated document that takes all parties e2 80 99 ideas on board.
OMAN and \t\tVENEZUELA opposed the inclusion of the theme on energy and climate \t\tchange.
NORWAY encouraged countries that have not yet communicated their pledges to do so and explained their 30% target relative to 1990 levels by 2020, which can be increased to 40% if major emitting countries agree to commitments that would limit global warming to 2°C, focusing on manufacturing, transport and petroleum sectors.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed dismay with the text, saying that it “is unbalanced,” due to the removal of the G-77/China’s proposals.
BRAZIL said that reference to Convention Article 12 (communication of information relating to implementation by developed country parties) should be contained in a section on monitoring and review of adaptation action and support.
On emissions trading, CANADA and AUSTRALIA argued that the chapeau decisions should be brief and reflect Protocol and UNFCCC provisions.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, urged parties to support the implementation of NAPAs.
The US said the GCF would be a channel for part of the US$100 billion.
 \t\tBARBADOS requested delegates to be mindful of UNFCCC Article 4.8 \t\t(adverse effects), and provide support to SIDS.
TURKEY noted the need to develop eligibility criteria for support.
The G-77/CHINA and others said the SCCF should finance activities currently not supported by existing funds, and, with MICRONESIA, TANZANIA and KENYA, stressed the importance of prioritizing adaptation activities.
SAMOA highlighted the need to agree on criteria to determine and knock out deminimis cases.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, AILAC, NORWAY, the US, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA welcomed the emphasis on the role of non-state actors.
HUNGARY said other Parties could follow countries with economies in transition, who joined Annex I in spite of economic difficulties.
On the content of the draft decision, AOSIS, supported by the LDCs, BOTSWANA and Colombia, for AILAC, said the decision should call for strengthening the long-term global goal to 1.5 c2 b0C.
Penny Wong, Minister for Climate and Water of Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an agreement delivering an environmental outcome and with legally-binding commitments for all major economies in order to realize a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
The US said public support for research and development and national enabling environments would promote private sector investment.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA also emphasized the expandable nature of a REDD+ mechanism, saying it could serve as a pathway to increase the range and magnitude of NAMAs.
CANADA added that the CRP would significantly limit parties e2 80 99 collective ability to reduce emissions.
In their joint statement, BASIC countries outline their views on: the 2014 UN Climate Summit; enhanced pre-2020 ambition; the Lima Climate Change Conference; the 2015 agreement, including adaptation, support to developing countries and transparency; INDCs; and the role of existing institutions and mechanisms under the Convention post-2020, among other issues.
She proposed a two-stage approach for the preparation of guidelines and noted that the reference to "national reporting" in the UK submission should be altered to "national communications."
Responding to a question by the UK, Chair Pachauri said governments may send their comments on the Recommendations Paper to the Secretariat.
The US suggested considering how the IMO and ICAO should deal with the principle of common but differentiated responsabilities if it is not part of their mandate.
CANADA highlighted the potential of sectoral crediting mechanisms and proposed considering fundamental changes, including the possibility of more countries participating in joint implementation, simplifying rules for sinks projects under the CDM, and improving CDM governance.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION urged clear procedures for the CDM, operationalization of JI, and simplification of existing Protocol procedures.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for multilateral oversight of commitments, questioning the suitability of a bottom-up approach to deliver the required level of ambition.
 This matter was addressed briefly by SBSTA on Thursday, 6 June, before being taken up in informal closed consultations co-chaired by Clare Breidenich (US) and Yvette Munguia de Aguilar (El Salvador).
\t\tMaldives, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), highlighted the \t\tAdaptation Fund, suggesting application of the levy to other flexible \t\tmechanisms, not just the CDM, and to international maritime and air \t\ttransport.
On implementation, the EU, with NORWAY and the US, emphasized the need for EITs to provide an enabling environment.
The LDC Expert Group held its third meeting from 3-5 March 2003, in Samoa.
TURKEY said a post-2012 regime should consider countries’ different levels of development.
He said that a national inventory would require funds of US$7 million and that the GEF had been requested to provide US$3 million in this regard.
 CHINA noted that all the Parties must abide by the BM\'s provisions or risk distorting the process.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 recognizes that developed countries commit, in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly US$100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries;
SWITZERLAND suggested the creation of a compliance mechanism.
The EU stressed the importance of the issue and the primacy of domestic action, and proposed a concrete ceiling.
GUYANA, supported by COLOMBIA, suggested that a three-phased approach should be integrated into the specific principles.
INDIA suggested addressing barriers created by intellectual property rights.
ROMANIA, LITHUANIA and ALBANIA said economic and social progress must be harmonized with environmental protection by applying the principle of sustainable development.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, urged moving towards textual negotiations, while the US, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, and AUSTRALIA, preferred discussing elements of the informal note before starting textual negotiations.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, proposed distinguishing content that needs to be included in a legal agreement from content that is more appropriate for a COP decision.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed that such reviews should only lead to stronger commitments.
JAPAN highlighted its proposal on the review for reinstatement of mechanisms eligibility.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed the Chinese proposal on functions because it substantially changes the previous work of AG13.
On paragraph 5 (recommending the COP President to consider options for bringing together the outcomes of the work under various bodies), Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested deleting the reference to the objective of illustrating the progress made, saying it is duplicative.
One summarizes the proposed budget for the 2000-2001 biennium amounting to a total of US$25.277 million.
Many countries, including Iran, Zimbabwe, Kenya and the US, expressed their appreciation to COP/MOP President Espinosa for her leadership and the manner in which the process had been conducted.
 The US recommended that the SBSTA should improve instructions for subsequent national communications by: eliminating ambiguity from GHG inventories; including implementation status and expected effect in the descriptions of policies and measures; and including all GHGs in emission projects.
ROMANIA agreed with the concept of differentiated commitments but cautioned against using 1990 data for his country because GHG emissions decreased 20-40% due to major political changes.
Urging a focus on substance and enhancing common understanding, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for more time to consider: transparency of action and support; Agreement Article 6 (cooperative approaches); adaptation communication; and accounting under item 3 of the APA.
CHINA expressed concern that emissions trading would replace government commitments with activities of firms and individuals.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, \t\thighlighted adaptation and technology transfer, the AWG and the Russian \t\tproposal on voluntary commitments.
JAPAN recalled that the draft decision on Article 4.2(a) and (b) contained a bracketed sentence urging Parties to ratify.
The EU supported regional centers with strong operational links to the private sector, academic institutions and other research centers and welcomed a discussion of how the G-77/China’s proposal would work in practice.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said it overachieved its Kyoto Protocol first commitment period target and that its INDC target is to reduce emissions to no more than 75% of 1990 emissions by 2020.
 MICRONESIA said small island States need the GEF to prioritize enabling activities and to be more responsive.
The UMBRELLA GROUP opposed Saudi Arabia 92s proposal \t\tand sought more information on the capacity building proposal.
The EU, the \t\tG-77/China and Saudi Arabia welcomed the decision.
Opposed by BRAZIL, he called on Parties not to push for the most comprehensive and complex regime, but one that will be "viable."
As part of the latter, the COP requested \t\t\tthree regional workshops and one expert meeting for small island \t\t\tdeveloping states (SIDS) to facilitate information exchange and \t\t\tintegrated assessments to assist in identifying specific adaptation \t\t\tneeds and concerns, all of which have been held.
The EU proposed including reference to capacity building being a joint effort between developed and developing countries.
The US, Australia and Japan raised concerns about the process by which the draft conclusions were reached.
He also said he did not recall anyone talking about the effect of measures on developing countries when OPEC raised oil prices twenty years ago.
On a sentence on the scope of \t\t\tthe section, the US said the language should reflect the difference \t\t\tbetween changes in climate, and changes in the natural systems.
The US said that the COP was the supreme body of the Convention, and discussion about the evolution of commitments was under its purview.
The PHILIPPINES inquired into strategies to decouple emissions from development, with AUSTRALIA pointing to a carbon price and the EU urging global action to avoid carbon leakage.
On other possible improvements to the flexible mechanisms, INDIA proposed an item on adding revised criteria for DOE accreditation.
CANADA, with the EU, and opposed by INDIA, said the proposed adjustment in the definition would be required for the CACAM group to gain representation on the Expert Group on Technology Transfer.
AOSIS called for common accounting rules for non-Annex I parties and cautioned that even if indicators presented by China, Brazil and India are achieved, their emissions will increase.
Belize, for AOSIS, lamented the inclusion of “dynamism” in mobilization.
CANADA and the PHILIPPINES shared experiences on the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with CANADA underscoring the need to share sound scientific and technical information on agriculture in a more formal mode under the SBSTA.
CHINA suggested alternative clustering options.
BRAZIL said his country would provide specific language on common metrics for inclusion in the text on sub-paragraph 1(b)(i) of the BAP.
The US called for a pragmatic approach and noted convergence on many issues such as adaptation and financial architecture.
JAPAN said a discussion of the flexibility mechanisms is useful to ensure that they are better utilized in a new international framework.
SWITZERLAND said the spin-off groups should have a mandate to make progress on text and INDIA said any technical discussions need to be in the context of the political context set at Cancun.
Germany asked for the full list of low-carbon energy sources, including renewables, nuclear, and fossil fuels with carbon capture and storage (CCS), to be removed, which Saudi Arabia, the US, and Japan opposed.
On \t\teffective participation in the UNFCCC process, the US expressed surprise \t\tthat Parties were not in agreement on the interpretation that meeting \t\tattendance implies physical presence.
The US said other sources of information were acceptable, and stressed that actions should be focused and effective.
In addition, the US emphasized the \t\timportant role of those who fund scientific research.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for parallel progress on all tracks of work and stressed that developed countries should not transfer their responsibilities to developing countries.
GHANA noted the need to streamline the text on capacity building and highlighted the need for support that enables developing countries to MRV the transfer of technologies by developed countries.
New Zealand and the US preferred Alternative A but were flexible on either a 2/3 or 3/4 majority.
The EU gave a presentation addressing overachievement in the first commitment period, stressing that the EU may have substantial surplus of Assigned Amount Units (AAUs).
JAMAICA, SIERRA LEONE and others proposed regional training workshops to help build capacity of prospective NIEs.
On emissions trading and liability, the G-77/CHINA expressed preference for blending the "commitment period reserve" and "surplus units" options.
Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Ian Lloyd (US) and Claudia Octaviano (Mexico).
The EU opposed the proposal, stating that the issue should be taken up in informal consultations within regional groups.
CANADA and INDONESIA presented consolidated text on means of implementation resulting from informal consultations, highlighting funding options for public-based, market-based, and hybrid approaches.
NEW ZEALAND noted her country’s intention to take on post-2012 commitments under the Convention track, observing that the Protocol covers less than 15% of global emissions and therefore cannot represent a common future.
The NETHERLANDS suggested that an MCP should function as a “help desk” where a Party with a problem can seek advice.
In the early morning hours on Friday, the ministerial meeting adjourned and delegates, accompanied by a few ministers, separated into two rooms \' one room for developing country ministers and delegates and one room for OECD ministers and delegates.
PERU called for a bottom-up approach to finance, based on integrated national programmes that define the scope of funding required.
There are many categories of "special needs" countries, besides AOSIS, and opening the Bureau to one will require opening it to the others.
INDONESIA expressed preference for a 2 c2 b0C limit, but said it was willing to work on another realistic and implementable threshold.
With NEW ZEALAND, she opposed restrictions on trade in assigned amounts, characterizing them as inequitable, costly, arbitrary and difficult to implement.
The US said that the IPCC’s acceptance of the Report does not imply that the US endorsed it.
BRAZIL, for the \t\tG-77/China, proposed that submitting data and information on HWP should \t\texplicitly apply to Annex I Parties.
On a paragraph on preparation of a negotiating text by May 2015, the EU, supported by Switzerland and the Marshall Islands, and opposed by the LMDCs and Canada, supported maintaining a reference to Convention Article 17 (protocols).
In the next paragraph, the US stressed the \t\tneed to convey that storage potential in saline formations could be much \t\tlarger than 2,000 Gt CO2.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need to keep the issue of environmental integrity at the forefront in discussions on the Kyoto Protocol’s methodological issues.
DENMARK, supported by the UK and the \t\tNETHERLANDS, suggested emphasizing caprock as a necessary trapping \t\tmechanism.
The US, supported by Turkey and Switzerland, suggested postponing the decision about to whether the AWG-LCA would meet in conjunction with COP 16 until June.
TURKEY reiterated that its current status as was an anomaly that delays its ratification of the Convention.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, lamented that the level of funding available under the LDC Fund is insufficient to meet the costs of implementing submitted NAPAs.
IRAN said such a fund should also minimize the adverse impact of response measures.
COLOMBIA noted they could agree to the US proposal for a new sub-group but emphasized that the issue of support by developed countries should also be discussed in this context.
Chris \t\tLeigh, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, UK, spoke \t\tabout his country 92s experiences with P&amp;Ms, focusing on the greenhouse \t\tgas levy and the UK 92s emissions trading scheme.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA questioned a sentence he said could be interpreted as signaling that substantive decision-making on LULUCF will take place at SBSTA-11.
INDONESIA called for coordination among financial mechanisms, and MALDIVES urged facilitating access.
The EU explained that the phrase was intended to convey a distinction between criteria for project-based mechanisms and criteria related more generally to the Parties.
On Saturday, 30 October, the G-77/CHINA tabled its proposed draft decision whereby the COP decides to conclude the review process and take a conclusive decision on the pilot phase and the progression beyond that at COP-6.
The US underlined the issue of baselines.
However, some issues remained unresolved, \t\tincluding items on the LDC Fund, the SCCF, and Protocol Article 2.3 \t\t(adverse effects of policies and measures).
Nauru, for AOSIS, opposed a review of the ADP workplan that would allow for its curtailment in 2017.
Following statements by ICELAND and other Annex I countries, he concluded that full agreement had yet to be reached, and requested Ole Plougmann (Denmark) to conduct informal consultations on the issue.
The EU called for more precision on technology and capacity building, and highlighted that a deal in Copenhagen would result in a large increase in technology transfer and capacity building.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), outlined three important steps for Durban: agreeing on key elements of an international regime after 2012; launching a process to further strengthen the regime in the mid-term; and agreeing on the key elements of a shared vision, including a long-term global goal for emission reductions and a date for peaking of global emissions.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested starting by considering the objectives of the work programme on response measures.
SOUTH AFRICA argued that JI 92s limitation to Annex I Parties does not justify less onerous requirements.
JAPAN, opposed by \t\t\tBRAZIL, supported addressing simplified modalities.
Micronesia, speaking for AOSIS, as well as for ARGENTINA, BENIN, CHILE, COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, the GAMBIA, GUATEMALA, ECUADOR, EL SALVADOR, KENYA, MOZAMBIQUE, PANAMA, PERU, SENEGAL, UGANDA and TOGO, stated that Annex I countries, whether or not parties to the Protocol, must collectively reduce their emissions by at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020, and by more than 95% from 1990 levels by 2050.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a shift to practical implementation of adaptation activities, and highlighted the need for early warning systems, vulnerability mapping and information exchange.
SWITZERLAND emphasized ensuring that the quality of information improves over time.
Responding to a question from NIGERIA, Jallow underscored that, while climate change is not the only factor negatively affecting water resources, it will exacerbate existing problems.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for adequate time for coordination during future sessions.
France, supported by the US, suggested deleting this sub-paragraph, on assistance for research and development, stating that the entity should fund specific projects relevant to national programmes, not new or existing institutions.
The G-77/CHINA clarified that one of the proposed paragraphs reflects what must be done after the information has been collected, including development of ways and means to minimize potential consequences, while the other refers only to the need to deepen understanding.
Republic of Korea, for EIG, welcomed progress on, inter alia: MRV of systems for Annex I and non-Annex I countries; adaptation; technology transfer; and REDD+.
The EU, \t\tsupported by ARGENTINA, AOSIS and the US, suggested that the Secretariat \t\tinvite contributions from the Parties and prepare a paper for SB-23.
ZIMBABWE noted the need to identify different levels of initial actions appropriate for countries with different levels of development.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the difference between vulnerability based on science and based on institutions.
TUVALU stressed improving inventory systems.
Switzerland, supported by Australia, Norway, the EU and others, proposed to begin with an exchange of ideas in a plenary setting and then engage in contact or spin-off groups.
CANADA, supported by SWEDEN, proposed a trial period to \t\ttest CRF tables.
The G-77/CHINA requested that the GEF and its implementing agencies be present at all relevant meetings in order to provide information.
The US and Australia expressed their trust in the professionalism of the evaluation panel.
SINGAPORE urged consideration of countries’ “three Cs”: their differing contexts, constraints and contributions.
ARGENTINA said non-Annex I Parties should be able to refer a case of non-compliance with Article 3.1 (quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments).
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said the SAR already shows dangerous climate interference.
URUGUAY, SENEGAL and JAMAICA called on the international community to provide more financial support to the Fund.
In the opening SBI Plenary on Thursday, 4 June, AOSIS and the G-77/China emphasized the need for the SCCF to support adaptation activities, and with the EU and Ghana, underscored the importance of providing finance to countries that are not eligible for support under existing UNFCCC funds.
The US requested more explicit treatment of uncertainty regarding multi-model assessments, model downscaling and carbon budgets.
MAURITANIA objected to the inclusion of forest protection within the CDM, as Parties would seek to protect their forests regardless of its inclusion.
On  , the EU introduced two proposals.
Sara \t\tScherr, Forest Trends, US, spoke on LULUCF as a tool for sustainable \t\trural development, calling for climate change to be integrated into the \t\tMillennium Development Goals.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for a cautious approach to the CCS.
UGANDA supported regional capacity building and South-South sharing of expertise.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported a multi-window financial mechanism under the control of the COP to support the building blocks.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for a strong compliance mechanism and the application of the Protocol rules to Annex I countries, including LULUCF accounting.
NEW ZEALAND noted her country e2 80 99s unconditional target of a 5% reduction below 1990 levels by 2020 and identified as measures supporting the goal: domestic emission reductions; removal of CO2 by forests; international carbon markets; and surplus units from the Kyoto Protocol first commitment period.
TUVALU called for a better reflection of his country’s proposals in the document.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted its commitment to a strong post-2012 outcome, noting a desire for a ratifiable agreement encompassing all parties to the Convention.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, stressed the comparatively small amount of money made available for adaptation.
INDONESIA called for mainstreaming maritime issues into mitigation and adaptation, and cautioned against backsliding by developed countries.
TUVALU, on behalf of AOSIS, questioned the status of the new text, noting that some submissions had not been incorporated.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stated that future revision of reporting guidelines would be useful.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, identified the need for an additional negotiating session before Doha to allow more time for the AWG-LCA to reach clear agreements, underlining the need for specific results.
94 Supported by NORWAY and the US, \t\tBELGIUM proposed distinguishing more clearly between leakage from ocean \t\tand geological storage.
AUSTRALIA asked to see disaggregated data for the EU “bubble.” AOSIS noted that 30% falls short of the level of ambition required.
JAPAN highlighted that the IPCC’s 25-40% reduction range does not consider economic consequences and political feasibility and, with CHINA, noted the IPCC range was not a negotiated conclusion.
The US noted that he did not view the text as policy prescriptive and, supported by Switzerland, said the chapter lays out empirical aspects of issues broadly related to finance and investment, and aims to assess relevant literature in a manner consistent with IPCC procedure.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported a global goal that is general enough to be applicable to all and specific enough to inspire action on the ground.
TURKEY said it was looking forward to COP-7 92s adoption of a decision forwarded from SBI removing Turkey from the Annex II list and recognizing its special circumstances as an Annex I Party.
The US and Saudi Arabia \t\t\tproposed, and WGII agreed, to delete reference to the time-frame \t\t\tfrom a sentence indicating that 93by mid-century 94 coasts will be \t\t\texposed to increasing risks due to climate change and sea-level \t\t\trise.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA suggested also exploring the consequences of the various options regarding base year, LULUCF scenarios and treatment of surplus AAUs, together with their impacts on the desired environmental outcome.
 c2 a0The AFRICAN GROUP called for addressing procedure before any substantive discussions.
The US also called for biennial reporting from non-Annex I countries on their mitigation actions.
NORWAY urged agreement on LULUCF rules prior to targets being agreed by Annex I parties.
SLOVENIA introduced a proposal for a draft decision calling for a prompt start to capacity building in EITs, and a COP decision to initiate the creation of the framework for capacity building.
On \t\t\tTuesday, 15 May, the Secretariat distributed a table outlining a \t\t\treduction scenario of US$1,754,900, and identified cost-cutting \t\t\tmeasures already implemented.
Twenty \t\tpanelists examined various aspects of CCS, including: technology options \t\t(primarily concerning geologic storage); pilot projects in Canada, \t\tAlgeria, and the Netherlands; financial and monitoring challenges; \t\tnascent ocean storage technology; the Carbon Sequestration Leadership \t\tForum; policy and legal issues; applying CCS emission estimation \t\tmethodologies in national greenhouse gas inventories; training courses \t\tto build awareness and capacity; an EU policy framework for CCS; and \t\trisk assessment.
UGANDA called for discussions focusing on adaptation and means of implementation.
AILAC underlined public funds as the primary source, supplemented with private and alternative sources.
The EU said that such a "compliance action plan" would be one way to overcome his reservations about subtraction from future commitment periods.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized the need for: accelerating work on, and making funds available for, NAP implementation; ensuring sustainable funds for the Adaptation Fund; strengthening capacity-building institutions and networks; and undertaking a science-based review of the global long-term goal.
The EU suggested ways to detangle the issue of differentiation from substantive questions, either by having differentiation in the chapeaus of each sub-section and taking political decisions at a later stage, or deciding on the political issue first.
AILAC stressed early warning for potential non-compliance.
MALAYSIA noted the importance of tax incentives.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted the importance of: coherence between both ADP work streams; an integrated approach to finance, technology and capacity building; and reaffirmation of the primacy of the UNFCCC.
The EU said there is no “one size fits all” solution and that capacity building should be based on national institutions and processes.
VENEZUELA emphasized that the consultations could result in issues being dropped.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, reminded parties that Decision 1/CP.16 (Cancun Agreements) recognizes the need for a longer time frame for the peaking of GHG emissions in developing countries.
CHINA identified the need to improve transparency, fairness and efficiency in decision-making.
AOSIS highlighted the text as “a step forward” at this juncture.
On the expected outcome of the \t\tprogramme of work, the UK, with others, noted that the intent of the \t\tprogramme of work should be to enhance capacity to identify, decide on \t\tand implement adaptation actions.
 The US said there is a willingness from developing countries to move forward and suggested noting the non-Annex I work and the workshop that developed the guidelines.
94 NORWAY and AUSTRALIA said that project participants, the host Party or a designated legal entity should monitor.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the EU, expressed preference for adopting conclusions rather than a decision.
The EU said that Germany’s proposal that “a certain portion yet to be determined may be met through JI, whereby a significant part of the commitments must be met through measures within each Party’s own territory” should be retained for now.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged ambitious Annex I targets in the range of 25-40% cuts by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
On comparability, NEW ZEALAND highlighted her country’s unique characteristics resulting in high marginal abatement costs.
MALDIVES stressed transparency and called for a synthesis of biennial submissions by developed countries by COP 24 to track progress towards the US$100 billion goal.
EGYPT reserved the right to consult within the G-77/China, which will provide a joint statement.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: affirming the principles of the Convention; effectively implementing the BAP; and considering how to carry forward any incomplete work from the AWG-LCA.
He also noted that paragraphs proposed by a number of Parties including Norway, Iceland, New Zealand and Switzerland could be integrated into the EU proposal.
 : On draft conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2011/L.25), the Gambia, for LDCs, sought to add reference to LDCs in one section.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that many consequences are not unintended.
SAUDI ARABIA and Malaysia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (LMDCs), stressed that the section is not necessary, while Peru, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), Tuvalu, for the Least developed Countries (LDCs), MEXICO, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, URUGUAY and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized the importance of the section for contextualizing the objective of the agreement.
The UK, supported by Peru, underscored that the report should not be a commentary on current disaster relief, but rather focus on future adaptation to climate change.
The EU highlighted the need for funding in the order of €100 billion annually by 2020 to support adaptation, mitigation, REDD, technology and capacity building.
  Referring to the report of the workshop on the work programme on long-term finance, JAPAN stated that it would be inappropriate to deem international shipping and aviation a source of long-term global climate finance.
The EU, opposed by AUSTRALIA, stressed the link between adoption and use of the mechanisms.
 The EIG and Turkey supported using the existing guidelines, with the EIG suggesting that the need might arise for adding further guidelines and new topics or for adjusting the frequency of reporting.
TUVALU proposed a new legally-binding instrument and the EU said it should be part of a post-2012 agreement.
He called for massively scaled-up, accessible and additional funding for LDCs, and, on adaptation, said the LDCs should receive 70% of the proposed 1.5% of Annex I parties’ GDP for adaptation.
The US, supported by Norway and Canada and opposed by Panama, for the CfRN, requested removing a reference to the Warsaw Framework for REDD+, saying it is not a body under the Convention.
The EU recalled that differences in quantified emission reductions were already addressed and was reluctant to give exceptions for single projects.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, TUVALU, NEW ZEALAND and others supported addressing sectoral approaches in the AWGLCA.
GUYANA said the Doha mandate is to launch “a process, not just a workshop.” A joint SBI/SBSTA contact group will be chaired by Madeleine Diouf (Senegal) and Keith Anderson (Switzerland).
NEW ZEALAND proposed a new heading on issuance and cancellation of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4.
In their scenario note (ADP.2015.InformalNote), ADP Co-Chairs Ahmed Djoghlaf (Algeria) and Daniel Reifsnyder (US) outline that the objective of the meeting is to negotiate on the basis of the positions contained in the Geneva negotiating text.
TGICA Co-Chair Bruce Hewitson (South Africa) reported on the Expert Meeting on Decision-Centered Approaches, held from 30 June e2 80 93 2 July 2015, in New York, US, noting there were 46 participants, including 21 from developing countries or economies in transition.
On the base year for additional activities, PAPUA NEW GUINEA noted the challenge of using 1990 due to inadequate data and the EU said that incentives will depend on whether the reference level is fixed in time or is tracked through periods.
CHINA underlined that there was no unified G-77/CHINA position on this proposal.
AUSTRALIA suggested the following differentiation among gases: those with sufficient information to warrant inclusion; those still requiring additional information; and those included under the Montreal Protocol.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, noted a proposal submitted on socioeconomic and environmental criteria.
CHINA suggested the establishment of a mechanism integrating existing arrangements on adaptation.
The US suggested the need to discuss the term "under certain circumstances."
The EU presented two options: adoption of a decision by COP-6 that would have immediate interim effect, accompanied by a recommendation to COP/MOP-1 to adopt an identical instrument; and adoption of a legal instrument that would enter into force at the same time as the Protocol.
The US also suggested not scheduling meetings for Saturday afternoons in order to facilitate informal discussions, which often take place on Sundays.
On information to be provided, BANGLADESH said INDCs should be simple and comparable.
 \t\t\tAustralia, \t\t\tfor the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the Adaptation Fund, Russian \t\t\tproposal, and AWG.
With SAUDI ARABIA, he opposed conditionalities.
Australia, for several UMBRELLA GROUP members, noted convergence on many issues and highlighted key elements that require agreement, including an eight-year second commitment period and expanded participation in market mechanisms.
An EU proposal for a draft COP-4 decision on revised guidelines was not supported.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU highlighted the potential role of the CDM in technology transfer.
SWITZERLAND said that the existing information units of the Secretariat and UNEP should be used to further the work under Article 6 and, with the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and IRAN, called upon the IPCC to provide reports in languages other than English.
The G-77/CHINA called for a COP-5 decision on capacity building.
The US suggested different treatment of adaptation and mitigation under timeframes.
The US, with JAPAN, favored recognizing that contributions are nationally determined and reflect national circumstances.
IRAN welcomed the transfer of technologies to advance diversification, as long as the technologies are sophisticated and modern.
Bolivia, for the G77/CHINA, stressed: best practices for strengthening institutional arrangements; the role of the LEG; linkages to the Technology Mechanism and Adaptation Committee; and linkages to the national level.
Following a request for clarification from INDONESIA on the implications of Germany’s offer to confer legal capacity, the AFB Chair explained that Germany had presented draft legislation, which involved passing the bill through Parliament but that the process could take up to a year.
On \t\tfactoring out, AUSTRALIA highlighted its proposal calling for a \t\tforward-looking dialogue that takes a broad approach to LULUCF issues.
SAUDI ARABIA said there was no consensus on the fact that mechanisms were an issue to be dealt with at this stage.
IRAN called for establishment of an information pool on technology transfer.
He also argued that the concerns of SIDS were being addressed \t\tunder other agenda items, such as those on adaptation, technology \t\ttransfer, and capacity building.
The EU stressed that the incoming Chair had been given a clear mandate to prepare text on amendments and decisions to be adopted in Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA inquired on what basis the invitations would be issued and asked whether the issue of the TAPs would be opened again during SBSTA 2.
 POLAND said guidelines for adaptation measures are needed as well as for inventories.
Linda \t\tMearns, National Center for Atmospheric Research, US, presented on the \t\tuse of regional climate models in impact assessments and adaptation \t\tstudies.
The AFRICAN GROUP said cooperative implementation should not overshadow the review of commitments, technology transfer and capacity building.
On adaptation, SPAIN and ALGERIA noted consultations on the establishment of an adaptation committee, facilitation of access to the fund, an international mechanism to address loss and damage, as well as consolidation of regional centers.
AOSIS and Venezuela welcomed complementary activities to raise ambition, cautioning these should not detract from UNFCCC activities.
Brazil, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), expressed concern about developed countries unilaterally creating new criteria for funding under the GCF, stressing that this practice has no legal basis.
Egypt, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), stressed the need for balance between action and support, and urged reasonable comparability across issues, “leaving no issue behind.” He noted that finance could “unlock” other issues, and called for upholding common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR-RC) in the outcome.
 \t\t\tNicole Wilke, \t\t\tEU, gave an overview of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) which \t\t\tshe said is a simple, cost-effective, sector-wide approach to \t\t\treducing emissions and is a major player in the global carbon \t\t\tmarket.
BRAZIL urged using the allocated time effectively, and with INDONESIA, stressed that the issue of “numbers” is the benchmark for success in Barcelona.
TUVALU suggested exploring agricultural soil carbon improvement, INDONESIA highlighted forest restoration, and PAKISTAN supported full land coverage.
AOSIS called for any roundtables to be focused.
ECUADOR underscored that the text does not substitute the AWG-LCA negotiating text.
The EU suggested a synthesis report coming out of the stocktaking.
VENEZUELA called for distinguishing between national and multilateral actions.
Norway, the UK, Hungary, Chile, Austria and others, opposed by Brazil, called for referencing forests.
Monaco, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), highlighted the importance of progress on technical issues, such as LULUCF, the transformation of emission reduction pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs), carry-over of surplus assigned amount units (AAUs), and the flexibility mechanisms.
JAPAN, supported by SWITZERLAND, pointed to duplication in the text on inputs.
CANADA said Chapter I of the Chair’s text should, inter alia, refer to the importance of the MRV regime, establishment of the REDD+ mechanism and the green fund.
The EU said a decision on the issue cannot be taken now.
The EU suggested that parties also consider how the issue of addressing non-permanence would work, inter alia, between different commitment periods.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of anchoring developed countries’ economy-wide targets, as well as mitigation actions submitted by developing countries, and urged further work on MRV and mitigation.
The US suggested adding wording from \t\tWGII SPM and delegates agreed to use that language as an introduction to \t\tthe rest of the text.
The EU advocated discussions on impact assessments but questioned the added value of focusing on unilateral measures, which are, in his view, necessary in the absence of agreed international measures, such as a global carbon tax or efficiency standards.
TANZANIA said support for adaptation measures in LDCs is a moral requirement.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over the lack of substantive conclusions adopted during the session and urged working towards the adoption of substantive conclusions at SBI 42.
  JAPAN requested the Secretariat to compile best practices on domestic policies and actions undertaken to overcome barriers to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
\t\tThe G-77/China and AOSIS also called for reference to the most \t\tvulnerable, with AOSIS calling for a special track for SIDS to address \t\turgent needs.
The US requested clarifications on certain aspects of the non-paper.
SWITZERLAND, the US and NORWAY underscored the need for stakeholder participation and transparency in the CDM.
The EU noted general agreement in parties’ pre-sessional submissions on three sets of guidelines to be defined, for: reporting; technical expert review; and multilateral consideration.
On criteria to identify decision text, AILAC, the US and the EU mentioned timing, and levels of detail and flexibility.
In 2007, the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice President Al Gore, for its work and efforts “to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about manmade climate change, and to lay the foundations needed to counteract such change.”
GREECE, BELGIUM, SPAIN and SLOVENIA supported renewable energy and energy efficiency.
TAJIKISTAN highlighted the need to develop a comprehensive framework on adaptation and technology transfer.
One developed country also identified the need to clarify the guidance that the LDC Expert Group (LEG) could provide.
• provide guidance on policy and programme priorities with special consideration for LDCs;
COLOMBIA stressed that the SDG process offers a way forward, but said the process must not be “contaminated” by bringing in the climate negotiations.
The EU said that while demonstration projects could be useful, lessons should be drawn from existing activities.
Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, with CAMEROON, underscored the importance to “launch” a REDD+ mechanism in the Paris agreement.
The G-77/CHINA suggested consideration of implications of different time horizons for GWPs and suggested replacing references to GWP with “GWP/GTP.” The EU said changes to the project-based mechanisms may need to be considered if GWPs are changed.
The EU, Canada, Japan, Uruguay, Costa Rica and New Zealand preferred using the TOR and work agenda as they stand, stressing the tight work schedule.
NORWAY elaborated on his country’s emission reduction target of 30% by 2020, which could be increased to 40% as part of a global and comprehensive agreement beyond 2012 where major emitting parties agree on emission reductions in line with the 2°C target.
BRAZIL, supported by Chile, for AILAC, suggested that developed countries e2 80 9cshall, e2 80 9d in their INDCs, communicate their financial support targets, and policies and measures for technology development and transfer and capacity building, taking into account national circumstances.
Recommendations from the workshop were obviously written by experts from OECD countries.
The US said that it has committed USD 300 million in new funding in 2010 for adaptation, ten times the amount in this year’s budget.
With ARGENTINA, he stressed the importance of adaptation in the agriculture sector.
Regarding reporting on the effectiveness and sustainability of capacity building programmes, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, opposed reference to national communications.
AOSIS warned that synergies should \t\tnot be a precondition for GEF funding, because it can exclude important \t\tprojects.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, asked that the view that loss and damage should be a separate section be clearly reflected.
CANADA proposed developing a COP decision on the basis of the Chair ef bf bds Summary of the pre-sessional consultations.
The EU said that since not all non-Annex I Parties have submitted national communications, absence of qualification would be misleading.
JAPAN said the non-paper should be “strengthened” and requested more clarity on how different proposals would work.
However, the “elephant in the room” at the start of the meeting soon became a non-issue as the US administration delayed its decision, allowing negotiators to settle back into a “business as usual” mode of work.
NEW ZEALAND, with CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed including text on the relationship between implementation of activities and other international agreements in the preamble.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, welcomed outcomes on several agenda items, including on the Nairobi work programme and on research and systematic observation.
The US said a distinction between the outcomes or consequences should be based on their mandatory or non-mandatory nature.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency AT the June session, with the compilation of a list of successful and innovative policies, followed by submissions and a technical paper.
BANGLADESH said that the GEF definition of "incremental costs" should include "new and additional funding" and costs for LDC\'s mitigation measures.
ICELAND said this was necessary in small economies because of the high proportional impact of single projects.
The US, opposed by the G-77/China, identified the need to streamline discussions on response measures.
JAPAN stressed the need to start substantive work as soon as possible and said the current provisional agenda is general enough to accommodate parties’ concerns.
China, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA (BASIC), called for starting textual negotiations as soon as possible and reflecting differentiation, the nationally-determined nature of contributions and flexibility for developing countries.
CHINA preferred that the COP govern the process but that reports and recommendations are sent to the COP via the SBI.
Emissions Trading: On the project cycle of emissions trading, AOSIS sought the establishment of a common set of principles across all the mechanisms, including the principles of environmental integrity and additionality.
During the two-hour meeting, some OECD countries called for reductions in the budget and asked the Secretariat to provide the group with new figures on Saturday evening.
TUVALU, with the EU, NEPAL and SWITZERLAND stressed the importance of cooperation with other conventions regarding LULUCF activities.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested reconsidering a \t\tparagraph on factoring out in the draft conclusion on other LULUCF \t\tissues.
 The US and CANADA noted that while differentiation is important, other concepts are as well.
On review of INDCs, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIA FEDERATION opposed assessment of INDCs by the Secretariat, with NEW ZEALAND calling for a simple and practical review process.
Canada, supported by the US, preferred deciding that the ADP “should aim to” prepare a negotiating text instead of “shall.” This was opposed by the LDCs, who cautioned against “slippage in timing.”
The G-77/CHINA called for a comprehensive, efficient and fair compliance system.
 This draft decision (FCCC/CP/2001/L.4/ Rev.1) states that the GEF should provide financial resources to developing country Parties, in particular to the LDCs and Small Island Developing States (SIDS), including for implementing Stage II adaptation activities and establishing pilot or demonstration projects to show how adaptation planning and assessment can be translated into projects.
NIGERIA noted the needs of African countries and called for the inclusion of paragraphs on economic damage to non- Annex I countries from actions by Annex I Parties.
The EU stressed integration with the ordinary review process, while NEW ZEALAND underscored the review for reinstatement as a specific element of the review guidelines.
CHINA, with the US, noted COP decisions urging Annex II Parties to include measures taken for technology transfer.
On the draft conclusions, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION lamented the firewall between methodological issues under SBSTA agenda items 11(a) and (b) on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8, and clarification of Section G (Article 3.7ter) of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
On how developed countries shall achieve their QELROs, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with COSTA RICA, stressed this should be done primarily through domestic emission reductions, and CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that the use of offsetting mechanisms weakens emission reduction commitments.
IRELAND proposed discussion on a fair and equitable distribution of emission targets.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for “specific information, possibly with numbers,” on what could happen if the necessary means of implementation and technologies were not accessible.
 Following this, Ian Pickard (UK), chair of the Annex I Expert Group, presented a summary (FCCC/AGBM/1996/Misc.1/ Add.2) of a study entitled “Policies and Measures for Possible Common Action”.
The table specifies emission reduction targets for each EU country.
The US underscored that as there was no in-kind support for the TGICA in TSUs for the AR6 cycle and no expected budget, it was difficult to see how the TGICA can continue to exist.
On whether LULUCF rules are needed before countries submit data, CANADA suggested that two types of data were being discussed: basic data that is readily available; and scenarios and projections, which require more information and are not likely to be available for Bangkok.
He called on the US to adopt legally-binding, economy-wide emission reduction commitments and on China to adopt binding actions, urging these countries to “unleash their full potential” to enable the world to achieve the objective of limiting the global temperature increase to below 2°C.
FRANCE asked whether the 1994 base year should be different than Annex I Parties\' base year of 1990, and also suggested that aggregation of reports from non-Annex I Parties did not preclude the need to collect or analyze individual countries\' reports.
The US said there was uncertainty over the impact of implementation of response measures.
  Chair Muyungi drew parties’ attention to questions: information available to identify common elements for measuring progress; how common elements facilitate comparability of mitigation efforts; the role of WRI and OECD; and the next steps.
CHINA proposed including a reference to "principles" in the agenda.
The SEYCHELLES expressed concern that vulnerable nations that are insignificant on the global stage may be excluded from programmes such as those under the flexibility mechanisms.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for: a compilation and synthesis report on non-Annex I national communications; further elaboration of the NAMA process, including a simplified procedure for least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS); establishing an international mechanism to address loss and damage at COP 18; and a new programme on Convention Article 6 (education, training and public awareness).
AUSTRALIA said it will strive to meet its Protocol targets.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND, the US, CANADA, JAPAN and others expressed reservations about the sub-section on institutional arrangements.
JAPAN suggested parties with high emissions should achieve energy intensity targets.
On Part VI, Review of National Communications and Information on Other Commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, CHINA requested that the scope of the review include examination of financial resources separately from technology transfer.
In an opening statement, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over slow progress and said conclusions on several agenda items should be adopted in Poznań.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, urged creating regional databases and providing MOI.
JAPAN highlighted activities under the CTI and AIJ.
AILAC, emphasized the importance of enhancing MOI and strengthening MRV systems in the context of workstream 2.
Turning to draft SB-16 conclusions on guidelines under Articles 5, 7 and 8, CANADA cautioned that the parts of the guidelines that remain pending might not be agreed at SB-16, and the conclusion was amended to suggest forwarding a draft co-chairs 92 text that would form the basis for work on the guidelines.
The US said he was "somewhat concerned" at the slow pace of progress in some groups, and called for concentrated efforts to keep the process on track.
MEXICO stressed open criteria and a progressive approach to the CDM that could foster immediate and simple actions without artificial limits, not contained in the Protocol.
The EU proposed that the compliance body comprise a technical team for facilitation and a legal team for enforcement.
He cited examples of Danish commitment, including a new Climate Bill, a US$70 million contribution to the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and a 38% reduction of GHGs since 1990 combined with economic growth.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said assistance should be provided through existing mechanisms, called for a legally binding regime applicable to all parties, and stressed the need to update the existing regime in line with 21st century realities.
The UK emphasized that even when the models and scenarios are right, uncertainty for decision makers will still exist.
Recognizing the importance of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement to many parties, she expressed the EU’s commitment to remaining a major contributor to adaptation finance.
SAMOA and BOLIVIA said full costs of adaptation actions should be funded, with BOLIVIA noting unavoidable impacts and lost development opportunities and CHINA opposing additionality assessment.
KUWAIT supported establishing a forum to exchange views and experiences and develop recommendations.
TURKEY explained that it had not signed the FCCC because its status as a developed or developing country is uncertain.
JAPAN stressed the need to improve the quality of developing country inventories and consider REDD.
MEXICO clarified their proposal for a green fund, highlighting that participation in the fund would be voluntary, but that once parties had opted in, their contributions would be based on assessment criteria related to emissions, population and economy.
SOUTH AFRICA requested inclusion of her country’s proposal on the life-cycle of NAMAs, clarifying that it addresses non-market approaches.
The US, AUSTRALIA and the UK \t\tsuggested early introduction of agenda items on emissions scenarios, \t\toutreach and election procedures so that discussions could be held in \t\tsmaller groups during IPCC-24.
The Republic of Korea and Sweden, for the EU, preferred retaining the text.
 Delegates in this contact group, co-chaired by Rob Mason (UK) and Al Waleed Al-Malik (United Arab Emirates), reviewed Parties 92 perspectives on progress on the implementation of activities under decision 5/CP.7.
Differences also emerged between the G-77/CHINA and some Annex I parties concerning the classification of proposals on allocating proportions of CER demand to specific project types and/or parties, and on co-benefits of CDM projects.
SWITZERLAND urged avoiding loopholes that endanger the environmental integrity of the Paris Agreement.
FINLAND suggested the AWG look into differentiation methodologies and not just historical responsibility, while CANADA said such responsibility is 93nuanced.
THAILAND called for urgent implementation of adaptation actions and cautioned against attempts to differentiate among developing countries.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China submitted a set of amendments to the Chair\'s draft conclusions.
The G-77/CHINA called for reference to remedies and, with TUVALU, highlighted that technology is not the only remedy.
INDIA and ARGENTINA noted that text on response measures did not adequately reflect parties’ submissions.
He said the EU expects full implementation of the actions pledged in Cancun.
Cuba, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), consisting of Antigua and Barbuda, Bolivia, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Venezuela, called for developed countries to honor their climate debt and rejected attempts to transfer responsibilities to developing countries.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by NORWAY and the US, said a quantitative goal for adaptation MOI could be aggregated from national adaptation plans (NAPs).
Indonesia, on behalf of the CARTAGENA DIALOGUE, outlined key issues for a balanced package in Doha, including adoption of a second commitment period, closure of the AWG-LCA, and progress under the ADP.
NICARAGUA called for commitment of 6% of developed countries’ GDP.
 On Monday, 7 November, the SBI took note of the summary reports (FCCC/SBI/ICA/2015/TASR.1/AND, and FCCC/SBI/ICA/2016/TASR.1/ARG, COL, CRI, LBN, MEX and PRY) finalized in the period 1 March-30 September 2016.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said the US presentation distracts from the BM\'s focus on commitments by Annex I Parties.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the new draft is “clearly our text” and “we are ready to start negotiating,” noting parties’ right to bring in text, especially bridging proposals.
CANADA introduced the package proposal, highlighting that it focused on trigger, appeal, compliance action plan and suspension of eligibility to make transfers under Article 17.
Opposing this, the EU said the matter is under consideration elsewhere and cautioned against duplicating work.
A delegate from a country with an economy in transition (EIT) said it would be useful to discuss the most effective and most efficient methods to conduct and update TNAs as new technologies emerge.
Guatemala, for AILAC, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, SWITZERLAND, Angola, for the LDCs, LIECHTENSTEIN, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and TURKEY called for the inclusion of gender equality and intergenerational equity.
She called for agreement on Annex I targets for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and said the US should commit to similar targets as other Annex I parties in a legally-binding form.
PAKISTAN said work at COP-9 must focus on capacity building, technology transfer, and the SCCF.
The US recognized its unique position as the largest historical emitter of greenhouse gases and as a country with important capabilities, but underscored that the US alone cannot provide the solution to the climate change problem.
BRAZIL said these discussions on mechanisms should be avoided until the third phase.
The EU and AUSTRALIA stressed accelerating submission of initial communications, assisted by the GEF.
Regarding a statement that  , the UK, supported by Finland, called for its deletion.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for further reflection of the financial and other costs of adaptation efforts and actions, noting that some developing countries undertake adaptation actions without MOI and this information could be useful.
Following these apologies, SAUDI ARABIA said he would not seek further action.
The EU called for specifying terms of reference for EB members concerning conflicts of interest.
BOLIVIA supported bundling and requested \t\tdevelopment of technical instruments to address this matter.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the Durban Platform as a universal platform to take international efforts on climate change forward by providing a “common ground” for all countries.
The LDCs recommended inserting a caveat for LDCs and SIDS on the inclusion of mitigation in INDCs.
Highlighting the vulnerability of her region, Colombia, for AILAC, stressed that effective implementation of the Paris Agreement requires consideration of countries’ special circumstances.
He identified discussions of a common rules set as necessary for the EU to increase its level of ambition.
UGANDA identified the need for a simple institutional architecture, and CANADA supported a simple, effective and elastic mechanism.
South Africa highlighted the long-term global goal as “more than just a number, but also nothing without a number.” The US said the 2°C target, to which the political leaders have committed, should guide the vision.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged moving into full negotiating mode in Tianjin.
With the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, he noted the need for joint or coordinated P&amp;Ms at the international level.
JAPAN \t\tsupported an ad hoc working group under the Convention including \t\tall emitters.
The PHILIPPINES described the proposal’s provisions in detail and highlighted the importance of funding the agreed full costs for national communications and agreed full incremental costs for all commitments under Article 4.1.
The Chair asked whether the other regional groups accepted the request of GRULAC to split the post.
CHINA and UKRAINE, opposed by some parties, introduced amendments highlighting attention to developing countries and economies in transition respectively.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need for least-cost solutions and advocated market- based instruments.
On the issue of supplementarity, Japan and the US urged against renegotiating the Protocol.
Barnwell outlined work carried out by CARICOM on the sustainable development of marine resources, highlighting the establishment of a common fisheries policy that takes into account climate change impacts.
He said the \t\tfirst would address adaptation for all but particularly LDCs, SIDS and \t\tAfrica.
ARGENTINA, with the G-77/CHINA, said text proposing additional submissions by Parties and an informal inter-sessional consultation prior to SBI-19 would further postpone progress on this matter.
The EU, CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA supported holding it prior to COP-5 in order to better prepare for and participate more fully in that meeting.
Mexico, the EU and the Dominican Republic welcomed the initiative.
The G-77/CHINA also expressed reservation to the list of possible areas of focus identified in the scenario note.
The US also expressed support for an assessment of ocean ecosystems.
JAPAN called for enhancing both adaptation financing for developing countries and short- and mid-term global emission reductions, and supported streamlining roles and objectives of coexisting financial mechanisms.
On capacity building, China, for the G-77/CHINA, supported further discussion on, inter alia: institutions, financial mechanisms, monitoring and performance tools.
\t\tThe US also expressed reservations about inviting \t\tsubmissions from Parties on this matter.
On expectations for COP 19, COLOMBIA called for an architecture for financing results-based action that links what is unique to REDD+, such as safeguards to finance and bodies, such as the GCF.
The US \t\tsaid he was not clear that the IPCC report on this issue belonged on \t\tthis agenda item.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted current reporting and review requirements as a good basis for MRV for all countries and noted the need for enhanced reporting guidelines for non-Annex I countries, including a review through a non-confrontational process.
The EU and US \t\tpointed to the fact that the GEF reports to the COP, and said further \t\tinformation can be obtained on the Internet.
The G-77/CHINA said their participation in mitigating climate change depends on the effective implementation of developed country Party commitments in the field of technology transfer and financial resources.
NEW ZEALAND proposed that a Committee of the Whole or similar body be created in 2009.
SAUDI ARABIA called for enhanced transparency and equity in policy development.
CANADA, the US and JAPAN, emphasized the importance of information exchange.
Noting continuing poverty and lack of access to energy and sanitation in developing countries, BOLIVIA underscored a lack of capacity, and said action requires technological and financial support, and that access to this support must be facilitated.
KENYA supported an equity framework approach with an equity review process.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, recalled that AOSIS submitted its draft protocol at COP-1 and said the protocol is intended to complement, not supplant, the Convention.
JAPAN proposed including parties’ views on this issue in the Secretariat’s paper.
Sweden, for the EU, urged parties to increase their emission reduction commitments and identified the need for coordination with the AWG-LCA and for continuing discussions on enhancement of carbon markets and LULUCF rules.
New Zealand and the US preferred Alternative A and are flexible on either a 2/3 or 3/4 majority.
AUSTRALIA stressed the need for a multi-faceted approach to technology.
 AUSTRALIA endorsed intergovernmental groups currently developing analyses and assessments.
Regarding paragraph 4 (nature of the MCP), AUSTRALIA raised the possibility of duplication by the MCP of other FCCC dispute settlement work.
Responding to the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 question on the next steps, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the group e2 80 99s ongoing work on a proposal on the way forward and asked for time to consult within the group.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, explained that its option for accounting for forest management was introduced because of concern with the reference levels approach.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS expressed concern that emissions could continue to rise, despite mitigation measures, and urged Annex I Parties to implement more rigorous policies and measures.
The G-77/CHINA objected to stating that the report only covered the formal proceedings.
NORWAY indicated that shared vision, mitigation and \t\tadaptation should be the main building blocks, with financing, \t\ttechnology, carbon markets, deforestation and aviation emissions as \t\tadditional elements.
JAPAN underscored that capacity building should be done based on concrete goals.
Regarding the modalities for work, the EU, Switzerland, Brazil, AOSIS, Norway, Japan, New Zealand and Mexico supported convening in a single contact group.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for ensuring coherence and balance in the Paris Agreement work programme.
Finland, on \t\tbehalf of the European Union (EU), highlighted the Stern Review and \t\tstressed the need for long-term action where adaptation complements \t\tmitigation.
The UK, supported by Canada, suggested adding a section covering what policies are working effectively in countries.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, with GUATEMALA, BRAZIL, SINGAPORE and EGYPT, highlighted the group e2 80 99s effort to find common ground on various options around the areas identified by the ADP Co-Chairs in the morning session and noted they have proposals to put forward.
On a paragraph on welcoming the further elaboration of elements for a draft negotiating text in response to previous COP decisions, the LDCs, opposed by the US, Australia and the EU, requested referencing Decision 2/CP.19 (Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage) and, opposed by Saudi Arabia and India, further elaboration of elements “as included in Annex I” to the decision.
The EU, CHINA, BELIZE, PANAMA and others proposed various workshops, while OMAN noted time constraints and said workshops should not replace negotiations.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said the Group was willing to continue working based on the Chair’s text while identifying the need to address certain issues, including enhancing the treatment of adaptation.
On the draft COP decision on Article 17, AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAMOA and the EU, proposed deleting the recommendation that COP/MOP-1 adopt the decision on emissions trading, arguing that the principles, modalities, rules and guidelines for trading should be defined by the COP.
AUSTRALIA introduced new text clarifying the role of a data-interface scoping phase, emphasizing that Parties should exchange views and consider a range of options.
AFGHANISTAN stressed that adaptation funding must be additional to, and separate from, official development assistance (ODA).
  This issue (FCCC/SBI/2012/3, 4, 5, 19, MISC.4 and FCCC/CP/2011/7/Add.2) was taken up by the SBI plenary on 26 November and considered in informal consultations facilitated by Tony Carrit (EU).
The EU called for focus on priority areas, including: finalization of methodological issues for timely reporting under the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol; elaboration of robust accounting for market- and non-market-based mechanisms; and conclusion of the work programme on clarification of quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets of developed countries.
CANADA supported the establishment of new market mechanisms, stressing the need to further elaborate the proposed text in order to address parties’ concerns.
FIJI stressed the need for a mechanism to address loss and damages.
SAUDI ARABIA advocated retaining bracketed text regarding reporting on Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms), while SAMOA supported retaining text on reporting on national arrangements to ensure that LULUCF activities contribute to conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
BOLIVIA, supported by the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, said funding in the range of US$10 billion per year is insufficient.
On text on demonstrating implementation of existing actions and commitments, AUSTRALIA suggested this should be addressed in preambular text.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION reiterated its proposal that each Annex I country consolidate its emissions into aggregate “carbon dioxide equivalents” with the obligations of each Annex I country set out in an attachment and determined according to Annex B.
She noted that gases should be grouped into “families” in Annex A. Japan, the EU, Canada, and Australia supported inclusion of new gases, where there is robust scientific evidence and technical information available to support mitigation.
LEBANON highlighted that biennial reports should contain specific information on the level of ambition in relation to the global goal.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of publicly funded technologies and support to the private sector.
ARGENTINA announced that it had adopted a voluntary target to reduce its GHG emissions, noting that it does not intend to abandon its status as a non-Annex I Party.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, requested a placeholder for the definition of “climate finance.” Bolivia proposed defining a mechanism for the implementation of joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral sustainable management of forests as an alternative to REDD+.
TANZANIA stressed the need to simplify the CDM and review its rules, including the criteria for sustainable development and requirement of financial additionality.
 Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Colombia, for AILAC, Republic of Korea, for EIG, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, NORWAY, the EU, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GHANA, SOUTH AFRICA, TANZANIA, ZAMBIA, and ARGENTINA urged “welcoming,” rather than “noting,” the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 c2 b0C in the draft conclusions (FCCC/SBSTA/2018/L.19).
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that the focus of Item 3 is to make the commitments of Annex I Parties adequate, but noted that the AGBM must evaluate policies and measures of all Parties.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized, inter alia: the urgent need for pre-2020 action; adaptation as a priority for developing countries; and enhanced participation of indigenous peoples in the UNFCCC process.
CHINA stressed the need for a party-driven and fully transparent process, and for “sticking” to the clear mandate in the BAP, warning that deviation would mean failure in Copenhagen.
JAPAN noted that, in addition to numbers, policies and measures can also be used in discussing comparability.
Parties also shared views on paragraphs on, inter alia: referring to the US$100 billion goal; biennial reports, with many noting this was outside the scope of LTF; and whether to give guidance to the incoming COP Presidency on the topic of the next high-level ministerial dialogue.
BANGLADESH stated that many issues that are important for LDCs are missing.
Costa Rica, Papua New Guinea, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the African Group, Colombia, Guatemala, Lesotho, for the LDCs, and Australia supported the proposal to establish a “friends of the chair” group.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the nomination of a Bureau member from Samoa to represent the SIDS.
On the elements for an MRV framework, CHINA suggested specific support goals including finance, capacity building and technology transfer, and identified the need for guidelines for the provision of new and additional finance.
Regarding guidelines for national systems, the EU, with JAPAN, said they should be flexible in order to reflect different national circumstances.
JAPAN said there was no mandate for a comprehensive review of capacity building under the Protocol.
On technical workshops, VENEZUELA said it would be more useful to discuss “normative trends,” pilot practices and means to facilitate a paradigm shift.
Nauru, for AOSIS, and CHILE supported starting negotiations based on the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decision.
AOSIS, supported by Tuvalu, suggested differentiating between enabling activities and implementation.
  SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and QATAR, noted that the issue had been pending for “a very long time” but requested that reference linking a workshop on 1/CP.10 to a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 be deleted.
CANADA favored CDM support for adaptation activities.
 CHILE supported Germany’s proposed approach for a flat rate emissions reduction, noting it contained clear measures and was aimed at CO2 emissions without precluding other instruments.
Responding to concerns from Tuvalu, Ghana, and Tanzania, for the LDCs, Facilitator La Viña highlighted that no informal consultations would be held that conflict with other meetings, and that the working method would rely on bilateral discussions.
BOLIVIA said markets are not the appropriate approach.
SAINT LUCIA and others said capacity building goes beyond technical aspects.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION offered technology transfer assistance.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and AUSTRALIA stressed NDCs’ nationally-determined nature.
The UK noted the absence of publications \t\ton national adaptation strategies and, with Cuba and others, stressed \t\tthe link between adaptation planning and integration into sustainable \t\tdevelopment.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, supported by GRENADA, cautioned against the uncertainties connected with measuring other activities and preferred putting them in Paragraph 3.
 \t\tThe G-77/CHINA called on SBSTA to identify \t\tfinancial resources to address the needs identified in the Technology \t\tNeeds Assessments.
CANADA expressed concern that the “text had become more complicated” and noted reservation at forwarding the text in its current form.
 ARGENTINA emphasized the importance of persevering in the effort to agree on the rules of procedure to revitalize the negotiations.
The EU said \t\t\tadaptation should play a more important role in the future regime.
UGANDA asked whether countries’ forest management methods and the nature of forests in each country were taken into consideration.
On implementation of the Headquarters Agreement, GERMANY reported progress on the building of a UN campus, the development of a congress center and matters relating to Secretariat staff and their families.
SIERRA LEONE emphasized the need to have a clear idea of the type of response measures that are expected to have adverse effects and consider projected impacts on, inter alia: transport, agriculture, water resources, forestry and biodiversity.
AOSIS also noted that SBSTA had so far failed to successfully integrate the TAR 92s findings into its work.
The EU said the TEMs should focus on facilitating action, and called for exploring how a web-based presence would add value to existing tools.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that parties were still not negotiating.
SWITZERLAND said that the requests made by the AGBM to the SBSTA required the efficient use of the intersessional period and the close cooperation of the bureaus of both bodies.
 The Fifth Meeting of the Leaders’ Representatives of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Change (MEF) met in London, UK, from 18-19 October 2009.
SUDAN called for starting to discuss text directly.
The US said that the text posed issues, which were not final nor finished and expressed willingness to work on specifics, noting that the relevant decisions would have enormous value.
The EU, supported by many countries, argued that the SR15 outline, agreed during IPCC-44, mandated assessing the pace of development of mitigation and adaptation options relative to the target of 1.5 c2 b0C, and that policymakers expected and needed an assessment of the scale of NDC ambition relative to the 1.5oC aspirational goal.
CANADA recommended that text on capacity building and collaborative efforts be linked to the elements of methodological work.
On mitigation contributions or commitments, SAUDI ARABIA said the subsection title should include e2 80 9cactions.
The EU proposed that parties discuss “how to do more and how to do it better.” He observed that many of the parties’ ideas were quite close to each other and CANADA pointed to the “common will in the room.” AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, proposed that the contact group discuss centers of excellence as a starting point.
He said Slovenia faces a challenging task in meeting its emissions reduction commitments, but pointed to awareness raised by the European Union (EU) Emission Trading Scheme, which is leading to better greenhouse gas inventories.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), lamented that parties did not achieve the outcome and vision in Copenhagen that they had in Bali.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Argentina stressed possible resolutions for legal issues raised.
He noted that two documents would be submitted to SBI-4 for further consideration, the draft MOU already adopted by the GEF Council (FCCC/CP/1996/9), and an alternate text submitted by the G-77/CHINA.
CHINA noted that several issues under the Convention remained unresolved and time was needed to prepare for the Protocol\'s entry into force.
 \t\t\tNEW ZEALAND, \t\t\tsupported by JAPAN, suggested seeking expert input on developing a \t\t\tcommon criteria for assessing mitigation potential.
The EU, with BRAZIL, stressed the need to ensure confidentiality of information submitted in confidence by Parties.
COLOMBIA said the current shortage of funding for participation by developing country delegates should be also considered.
 \t\tIndia, for the G-77/China, called for \t\tbalanced geographical representation in the UNFCCC Secretariat, \t\tneutrality in preparing documents, and equity in the allocation of \t\tresources for issues concerning developing and developed countries.
2 and Add 1; and 6), the EU said he had submitted a Protocol proposal and indicated support for "institutional economy" and a provision to allow Parties to adopt future obligations.
  Belize, for AOSIS, underlined the need to discuss risk assessment and management.
CANADA, supporting the GEF initiative, urged the GEF to further develop its interagency approach.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said Annex I countries should adopt the Toronto Target of 20 percent CO2 reductions below 1990 levels by 2005 and require non-CO2 targets at an appropriate time.
During the discussion, the US, with Hungary, suggested that capacity building focus on implementation of the FCCC and Protocol, rather than sustainable development.
With regard to sources of funding, developing countries noted financing should come from Annex I countries, while developed countries, such as the US and EU, highlighted the importance of the private sector.
SOUTH AFRICA, \t\twith the COOK ISLANDS, called for reference to the most vulnerable \t\tParties.
JAPAN noted that the \t\tprivate sector holds most climate-related technologies and stressed the \t\timportance of public-private partnerships.
CANADA and the EU suggested a high-level “political moment” in 2023.
The EU \t\tpreferred less prescriptive text, and compromise language resulted that \t\t 93encouraged, 94 rather than 93recommended, 94 the holding of UNFCCC and Kyoto \t\tProtocol meetings during normal UN meeting working hours 93wherever \t\tpossible.
The G-77/China, with Saudi Arabia, Burkina Faso, and the EU, called for increased funding for the participation of delegates from developing countries.
The PHILIPPINES, the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and ARGENTINA reiterated that the question of mandating the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement is procedural.
JAPAN suggested broadening Annex I on the basis of multiple criteria and differentiating among developing countries.
BARBADOS raised concern over the text on adaptation, highlighting institutional issues and a mechanism to address loss and damage.
On a preambular paragraph regarding the ultimate objective of the Convention requiring e2 80 9cstrengthening the multilateral, rules-based regime e2 80 9d and implementation of existing commitments, the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by PAKISTAN and opposed by the EU, preferred e2 80 9cmultilateral, rules-based regime under the Convention.
SOUTH AFRICA, as the incoming COP/MOP Presidency, supported by many parties, noted that many Annex I parties have expressed their willingness to engage in discussions on a second commitment period under the Protocol and proposed establishing spin-off groups on the understanding that discussions in the groups will follow strictly the AWG-KP’s mandate.
VENEZUELA called for a package deal that addresses differentiation.
The EU \t\tsuggested that discussions on LDCs should take into account \t\tdeliberations on decision 5/CP.7, in order to avoid duplication.
Parties discussed principles of financing, with the EU, supported by New Zealand and Canada, suggesting that any financial architecture should be based on principles of effectiveness, efficiency and equity.
On Thursday, 5 November, a contact group discussed three draft decisions proposed by the US, the G-77/China and the EU (FCCC/CP/1998/MISC.5/Add.3).
The US also supported the second option but highlighted that the text should remain as it is.
The AFRICAN GROUP suggested, inter alia, that developed countries, operating entities of the financial mechanism, and any other organizations in a position to do so allocate financial resources for transparency-related capacity for developing countries.
This represents a US$1.75 million reduction \t\tfrom the original proposal.
The EU, \t\tsupported by Saudi Arabia and others, proposed holding an intersessional \t\tworkshop to enable further discussion on carbon dioxide capture and \t\tstorage.
CANADA said the highest priority is preparing national communications, and supported annual reports on technology assessments.
The UK and AUSTRALIA said that the identification of mandatory requirements under Articles 5, 7 and 8 should be left to the groups dealing with the mechanisms and Articles 5, 7 and 8.
SOUTH AFRICA reported on the spin-off group on differentiation, noting interest in the debate and the diversity of views.
On adaptation, MEXICO supported regional centers.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU and JAPAN supported establishing small groups to address specific issues, while the G-77/CHINA opposed having smaller groups at this point.
MEXICO identified assumptions in design and implementation of credible and accountable NAMAs, including: existence of a national certifying body; development of sectoral baselines; and the availability of funding and technology through soft loans, national budgets, and private sector sources.
AUSTRALIA highlighted support measures for LDCs and the US emphasized the need for knowledge-sharing on best practices in adaptation.
JAPAN highlighted growing support for sectoral approaches.
JAPAN said since not all major emitters are part of the Kyoto Protocol, a second commitment period is neither fair nor effective.
The EUROPEAN COMMISSION said the EU hoped COP-6 would ensure the ratification of the Protocol for entry into force in 2002.
The EU emphasized that mitigation commitments should be in the agreement.
KYRGYZSTAN said medium- and large-scale hydro projects could benefit countries like his.
Delegates completed discussions on the elements for a draft decision on best practices in P&amp;Ms. CANADA, the US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, opposed by the EU, urged bracketing all references to the "consultative process."
MALAWI stated that the concept that “nothing is agreed until everything is agreed” is not helpful, emphasizing that progress could be made on certain elements.
He reiterated his invitation to US President-elect Donald Trump to visit Fiji, stressing “you came to save us during World War II, it is time for you to save us now,” referring to climate change.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said the distinction could be made later.
EL SALVADOR noted the need for greater coordination among all players in the financial architecture of the Paris agreement.
INDIA, supported by MICRONESIA and others, proposed a group or committee of experts and regional centers.
JAPAN presented on national experiences, highlighting enhanced sink policies and measures, which are broadening participation and utilization of products and biomass.
Responding to SWITZERLAND and the EU, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, clarified that they had been working to e2 80 9cslim down e2 80 9d the options contained in the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text, underlining that it was not new text.
On Friday, 6 June, the US reaffirmed its commitment to reduce its emissions intensity and opposed the creation of new bodies to review the communications.
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, called for a clear set of modalities for the operationalization of the forum and work programme, including, inter alia: assigning specific tasks and activities for the rest of the year and creating an outline schedule for 2013 to address the specific needs and concerns of developing country parties.
Over 50 participants attended, including country representatives from small island states, experts from various UN and regional organizations, an environmental NGO representative and special invitees from the Philippines, Mauritania, the US, the UK, Australia, Norway, New Zealand and Switzerland.
94 SWEDEN proposed inserting a reference to \t\t 93management 94 instead of 93enhancement 94 of biological sinks.
AOSIS, with several other developing countries, also opposed arrangements for reporting and assessment of adaptation actions.
BANGLADESH outlined a proposal for a regional research center on adaptation in his country to assist with planning, designing, implementing and monitoring adaptation activities.
The G-77/China proposed text on the outcomes of the workshops on insurance and risk assessment and on related actions, which the EU and US opposed, citing the unavailability of the written reports for consideration at SBI-18.
Despite protestations by the US that its concerns had not been addressed, the Chair gavelled this matter to a close and the text was adopted.
e2 80 9d The EU insisted on e2 80 9ccommitments e2 80 9d only.
Singapore, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the elements for the MPGs should be outlined along the lines of the “shalls” and “shoulds” of Article 13 (transparency framework).
The G-77/China reiterated the need to preserve the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities as defined in the FCCC and indicated that the US proposal on “voluntary but binding” commitments for developing countries counter to this principle.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, supported the elimination of the clusters on national schedules and the new sub-section for MRV, explaining that they contain ideas not pertinent to sub-paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
NORWAY noted that sectoral approaches could be useful in a transitional period to engage developing countries and promote technology transfer.
The PHILIPPINES requested more time to review the document.
The OECD outlined ongoing activities, such as supporting the integration of adaptation into development cooperation and conducting economic and policy analyses, including on adaptation.
The EU said the guidelines should include the elements for review under the FCCC and the Protocol, but would single out the parts of the guidelines not applicable to Annex I Parties not Parties to the Protocol.
GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, said the Convention had gathered momentum since COP-1 and a ministerial segment will continue this.
Canada and the EU argued that this issue is adequately addressed by previous decisions.
Noting the statement contains no uncertainty, the UK suggested the term e2 80 9crequire e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cimply.
She opposed a US proposal to state that technology needs assessments can "attract and focus efforts by Annex II Parties to enhance development and transfer of technology."
BANGLADESH, BURKINA FASO and the SUDAN stressed the need for early warning systems and disaster preparedness.
NORWAY said the ADP mitigation ambition workplan should look at both pledges and complementary initiatives.
The G-77/CHINA said it was a good first step but that resources allocated towards implementation were insufficient, and that the programme lacked a long-term strategic vision.
In case of non-compliance with Article 3.1 (assigned amounts - AA), the G-77/CHINA said the strictest of measures should be applied.
The US suggested that the proposal requires AGBM to project the consequences of non-action and asked what methodology would be used to make such a projection.
With JAPAN and CANADA, NEW ZEALAND supported a discussion on this item.
The US supported negotiating reporting guidelines under the AWG-LCA, and, with AUSTRALIA, reiterated the need to reach agreement on an operational system this year.
VENEZUELA proposed inserting a footnote stating that this would require a Protocol amendment and also noted that this issue is being addressed under the AWG-LCA.
He described the shared characteristics of LDCs in terms of the poor state of their economies and their health, education and industrial sectors, and observed that 33 of the 54 LDCs are African countries, while 15 are Asian or SIDS.
MEXICO suggested finding ways to utilize the GCF for promoting technology transfer.
The EU expressed \t\tdisappointment that more progress was not made at SBSTA-21, and favored \t\ta ef bf bdprompt start to a smart, low-cost website.
SOUTH AFRICA supported guidance on post-2012 CDM projects.
AOSIS highlighted the role of scientific information in defining a long-term goal, and MICRONESIA called for an iterative approach as science evolves.
Several parties, including BRAZIL, TUVALU, ARGENTINA and MEXICO, suggested conceptual issues should be discussed at ADP 2-9 without the expectation of being resolved.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, the PHILIPPINES and SRI LANKA expressed disappointment that parties could not reach agreement on how to address the impacts of climate change on agriculture, stressing agriculture’s importance to food security and livelihoods, and for eradicating poverty and hunger.
Several proposals have been received and document FCCC/SBSTA/1996/MISC.1 describes an initial phase of reporting based on proposals from the US and Germany.
On the terms of reference of the review, Canada, the US and Japan, opposed by Ghana, suggested using the EGTT’s performance indicators.
Gambia, for LDCs, called for a spin-off group on the scale of funding, based on the needs of developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that the EB has been gaining at the cost of the COP/MOP.
The EU, with NORWAY, noted their willingness to engage in discussions on entry into force and expressed concern with those taking a “narrow view of the mandate.” The EU said leaving these issues for the COP/MOP would not ensure enough time for these discussions.
Portugal, for the EU, said growth in global emissions must be \t\thalted in the next 10-15 years and urged a comprehensive global \t\tagreement by 2009.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed its opposition to a top-down approach and entered a reservation on the request to the Secretariat to coordinate with bilateral and multilateral institutions in preparing the elements of a draft framework for capacity building activities.
The EU stressed that the report of the preparatory phase should contain an “honest assessment” of the adequacy of current action.
SOUTH AFRICA said its submission on monitoring, reporting and verification for CDM also applied to JI.
The EU noted that the global and regional levels may not be the proper levels at which to conduct assessment and wondered where funding for such large assessments would come from.
 The NETHERLANDS and the INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY described the Climate Technology Initiative, a cooperative effort to support the FCCC.
Secretary Christ introduced relevant documents (IPCC-XXXI/Docs.15 and18), and the UK reported back on the task group’s proposals for changes to the rules of procedure.
ARGENTINA said adaptation follows a different logic from mitigation.
JAPAN and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA highlighted benefits of renewable energy and encouraged efforts to facilitate such projects under the CDM.
Co-Chair Plume, supported by AUSTRALIA, noted the need to move forward on the elements without pre-empting the work of the other groups.
France and Canada questioned the budget implications of new hires, and the US suggested that outreach could be done by the WMO and UNEP.
She also elaborated on innovative mitigation initiatives in SIDS.
The EU reaffirmed the SBSTA\'s focus on assessment and identification and said priority should be given to technologies for developing country implementation of national programmes, which should take feasibility into account.
 : Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) presented the report of the LDC Expert Group (LEG).
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), and Lesotho, for LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), noted with concern the possible gap between the first and second commitment periods and urged concluding work under the AWG-KP in Cancún.
On separation of natural versus human-induced effects, SWITZERLAND, opposed by CANADA, supported a negotiated threshold to deal with the human-induced effects, which could also be adjusted to deal with issues of uncertainty and permanence.
BANGLADESH stressed the role of the GCF in supporting technology transfer.
The UAE stated that compensation exists as a general principle of international law.
KUWAIT, SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA opposed language on limiting CCS under the CDM to geological formations.
SOUTH AFRICA said implementation should address the complete cycle of adaptation and learn lessons from the AF Board, and emphasized the importance of regional centers and focal points.
The US and NEW ZEALAND stated that they would not object to voluntary commitments from non-Annex I Parties.
\t\tBrazil, the EU and others stressed that this was an issue to be \t\tconsidered under the UNFCCC.
CUBA, COSTA RICA, PERU and others emphasized that the Synthesis Report must use inputs from the best experts with balanced geographic representation and, with SRI LANKA, EL SALVADOR and others, said cross-cutting themes should be integrated into the substance of the report.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND welcomed work on a technical paper on mitigation in the agriculture sector, and THAILAND said the paper should also consider food security.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and ARGENTINA, underscored that any action should be in line with the principles of the Convention and the Protocol.
Noting that, in terms of the UNFCCC, adaptation is the priority, MICRONESIA, for AOSIS, stressed the vulnerability of SIDS and underlined, inter alia, the need for building capacity, addressing insurance challenges, and improving access to funding.
The EU noted the need to expand the range of tools available, and proposed language in this regard, which was incorporated into the first option.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS noted the statements calling for urgent progress in reporting technology transfer activities from developed countries when technology transfer has been halted or denied for political reasons.
The EIG and AFRICAN GROUP welcomed the report.
SAUDI ARABIA, ARGENTINA and PERU preferred reference to all developing countries.
Discussion centered mainly \t\ton the inclusion of conservation and enhancement of forest carbon \t\tstocks, as proposed by India, Bhutan and others and opposed by Brazil, \t\tthe EU and others; and on consideration of deforestation in the context \t\tof discussions on long-term cooperative action under the UNFCCC.
Australia, supported by the US, felt that this was not consistent with the rest of the document since it was a selective representation of views.
JAPAN called for further information sharing \t\tand, with the US and CANADA, discussing technologies.
INDIA said the technology mechanism should support knowledge management and pilot new technology, and facilitate cooperation for diffusion of technologies.
 \t\t\tRegarding climate projections based on scenarios from the IPCC \t\t\tSpecial Report on Emission Scenarios (SRES), the UK suggested, and \t\t\tparticipants approved, language to clarify the two sources of \t\t\tuncertainty (the uncertainty in future emissions and the uncertainty \t\t\tin models).
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed text to replace a placeholder for paragraph 131 on a framework for scaling up technology development and transfer.
Hiro Kazuno, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, presented examples of Australia, Japan and the US supporting adaptation measures.
He listed UNEP activities relevant to NCSP, including the LDC Technical Support Programme, the Coastal Zone Management support for African islands, and the Global Network on Energy for Sustainable Development.
On separating the effects of climate change and impacts of response measures, AUSTRALIA said different modeling approaches are used.
Chile, for AILAC, called for defining public financing.
NORWAY emphasized that the review should provide a clear technical basis indicating whether a party is on track to meeting commitments.
Sweden, for the EU, said that a Copenhagen deal must deliver concrete results and include all the essential components of the Kyoto Protocol.
Observers noted \t\tthat the EU ef bf bds efforts to fold two agenda items under SBI and SBSTA on \t\tadverse effects and response measures into just one had received short \t\tshrift from Saudi Arabia and others that place great emphasis on these \t\tparticular issues.
CHINA proposed steps such as analyzing the sectoral context in each country, developing strategies and guidance for priority sectors, identifying major needs for environmentally sound technologies and establishing enabling policy instruments.
The EU identified the technology mechanism as an important vehicle for technology and capacity building support for adaptation and mitigation.
On the circumstances and needs of LDCs, TANZANIA, BENIN and DJIBOUTI noted that they will be most affected by climate change and have the least capacity to cope.
The UK suggested merging the 33rd and 34th sessions of the IPCC to reduce costs.
The US stressed its commitment to ensuring progress in the years ahead, and said no other country had shown as much creativity in trying to break the "log-jam."
CAMBODIA emphasized the need to set up an effective mechanism for transferring knowledge on adaptation and mitigation.
On the "analytical framework," the UK, AUSTRALIA and the US raised a number of questions.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the EU has begun investigating 11 areas of P&amp;M, identifying indicators, evaluating targets, and assessing emission reductions toward a study for AGBM 4.
BOLIVIA suggested that Parties monitor their own projects and ef bf bdlearn by doing.
She also noted that the value of compliance information obtained through the review would be limited given that parties may use the flexibility mechanisms, and, with BRAZIL, highlighted the two-year lag on emissions data due to reporting time lines.
Stating that capacity development should apply to all parties, not only developing countries, the EU called for improving and strengthening existing mechanisms and arrangements under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol that address capacity building.
The G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND and others highlighted the equal importance of the building blocks.
94 The EU preferred not losing too many specific suggestions.
SAUDI ARABIA said the compliance system should be simple and close to what was agreed to in the Protocol, in particular Articles 5, 7 and 8.
The EU stated that it would not be in a position to continue consultations until the Ministers arrived, given the significance of the issue for the EU.
GHANA highlighted Africa 92s needs, noting that the continent was both the lowest emitter of greenhouse gases and the most vulnerable to climate change.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed global and regional sectoral approaches.
The EU suggested, and the G-77/CHINA agreed, discussing whether the communications related to national adaptation plans and other processes should be addressed in the agreement or in COP decisions.
AOSIS WORKSHOP ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM OF THE KYOTO PROTOCOL: The Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) Workshop on the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the Protocol took place in Majuro, Republic of the Marshall Islands from 14 - 16 July 1999.
On the Executive Board (EB), NORWAY, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, highlighted a role for the EB in determining new baseline and monitoring methodologies.
The US stressed its opposition to unilateral measures in various international processes, but recognized that unilateral measures are permissible and necessary if consistent with international law.
On further technical work, a point of order was raised by Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by INDIA, and opposed by COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, the EU and the US, that undertaking informal consultations on ways to have further informal discussions after the closing of the APA plenary was not within the contact group’s mandate.
NEW ZEALAND called for “maximizing resources and not shutting them down,” and supported the generation of funds through bilateral, regional and other multilateral channels.
\t\tHe emphasized the EU 92s role in improving global energy cooperation, and \t\tnoted its commitment to developing the largest internal market in \t\tcleaner energy as an incentive to promoting investment.
The PHILIPPINES lamented conditionalities attached to financing for nationally appropriate mitigation actions in developing countries.
  ARGENTINA objected to the UK’s inclusion of Islas Malvinas/Falklands Islands and other South Atlantic islands in its national communications, citing sovereignty disputes.
The US requested that more \t\t\tfuel-efficient aircraft be included under transport.
On institutional arrangements, he cautioned against “reinventing the wheel.” Making a comparison to the Marrakesh accords, INDIA said many of the operational issues contained in the annexes could be developed after Copenhagen.
HUNGARY, the US, AUSTRIA and SWITZERLAND emphasized the role \t\tof observer organizations in facilitating transparency and confidence in \t\torganizations.
Peru, for AILAC, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that the co-chairs’ reflection note seek to eliminate duplications and improve the contents of the informal notes, which INDIA opposed.
  The contact group considering the prototype of the NAMA Registry met in the afternoon, co-chaired by Elina Bardram (EU) and Wondwossen Sintayehu (Ethiopia).
 \t\tThe Co-Chairs of WGI are Dahe Qin (China) \t\tand Susan Solomon (US).
JAPAN emphasized that Annex I parties already undertake robust and rigorous MRV under existing national communications guidelines, and that information on the Convention’s financial mechanisms is also submitted to the SBI.
Noting problems of accurate, transparent and verifiable accounting of forest management activities, TUVALU underscored that there are other accounting options.
 On the roster of experts, the EU supported establishing an interim roster to provide insight on accessing and applying specialized technical advice.
AUSTRALIA said SBSTA could be \t\t\tmore active in supporting exchanges between policy makers and \t\t\tscientists, but should not set scientists’ research agendas.
On ground instability in \t\t\tpermafrost regions, the UK indicated that the crucial distinction \t\t\twas one between direct and indirect impacts, rather than physical \t\t\tand non-physical environments.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a clear signal that the Protocol is “not dead.” She underscored the need for the Barcelona session to restore credibility and confidence in the will of the international community to tackle climate change and for the work of the AWG-KP to be brought in line with its work programme in order to make progress.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for more progress on mitigation and the transparency framework, including through informal informals.
BRAZIL sought clarification on the texts proposed by the Danish COP Presidency, questioning why they were presented when the COP plenary had not convened to consider the AWG-LCA’s report.
The COOK ISLANDS, while supporting inclusion of the G-77/China submission, stressed the importance of moving to substantive discussions.
A few countries, opposed by the US, proposed postponing discussion on this item to the future.
On measures and outputs, views diverged on whether to include a list of specific elements that the committee must consider in deciding measures and outputs, including, among others, force majeure and LDCs’ and SIDS’ special circumstances.
 \t\t\tThe UK queried the choice of two overlapping averaging periods to \t\t\tdemonstrate the growth of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, \t\t\tsuggesting that comparing growth rates from 1960-1970 or 1960-1995 \t\t\twith those from 1995-2005 would be stronger and clearer than \t\t\tcomparing with growth rates from 1960-2005.
TUVALU outlined three areas of uncertainty: measurement; additionality; and risk.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern about the possibility of creating new commitments.
The Accords also addressed issues such as support for developing countries, including capacity building, technology transfer, responding to the adverse effects of climate change, and the establishment of three funds: the Least Developed Countries (LDC) Fund, the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF), and the Adaptation Fund.
The remaining amendments suggested by the AOSIS, referring to the work of the AGBM\'s third and fifth sessions, categorizes the work done for these sessions but do not differ in content from paragraphs (8), (9), (10) and (12) of the Chair\'s as to what these AGBM sessions should consider.
THAILAND and DOMINICA called for a REDD+ governance body under the COP.
Reflecting on progress over 20 years under the UNFCCC, Nauru, for AOSIS, noted that hurricane Sandy was a reminder that “we are all in this together.” She emphasized that Doha is about preserving the fundamental integrity of the climate change regime which should begin with an ambitious and credible second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
He said that if the funds currently pledged were paid in time, an additional amount of US$150,000 could fund 110 developing countries.
The \t\tUS, opposed by GERMANY and AUSTRIA, called for removal of the reference \t\tto leakage from the transport of carbon dioxide as a factor in the net \t\treduction of emissions through CCS, given the minor impact of leakage.
The group decided to base its discussions on draft conclusions that contained a work programme proposed by the G-77/CHINA.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, suggested that the APA Co-Chairs: encourage the Adaptation Committee and LEG to complete their work and present a joint report to COP 23; and invite COP 23 to refer the mandate on modalities for recognizing adaptation efforts to the SBI for outcomes to be considered by the CMA in 2018.
The Gambia, for LDCs, highlighted that the ADP’s mandate provides an opportunity to enhance the mitigation ambition and adopt a new protocol under the Convention applicable to all, taking into consideration equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
 IRAN stated that the AGBM must perform a realistic analysis and assessment in order to have policies and measures commensurate with the situation.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the benefits of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, called for technologies that facilitate economic diversification, and opposed limiting technology transfer to the renewable energy sector.
AUSTRALIA proposed simplifying the conservativeness factor system to a single factor applicable to all adjustments regardless of the source of emissions.
QATAR, KUWAIT, the SUDAN, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA, ALGERIA, NIGERIA, SYRIA, OMAN and JORDAN suggested alternative language whereby the JWG would report to COP-6 93with a view 94 to adopting a decision on a compliance system, as this would be more consistent with the BAPA.
He recognized the unique position of the US as the largest historical emitter of greenhouse gases and as a country with important capabilities, but underscored that the US alone cannot provide the solution to the climate change problem.
 \t\tOn the emergence of \t\tother effects of regional climate change on natural and human \t\tenvironments, the US, opposed by the Netherlands, proposed removing \t\t 93natural.
The EU proposed wording on voluntary use of \t\t\tthe 2006 Guidelines “ensuring consistency with” the UNFCCC reporting \t\t\tguidelines, while BRAZIL suggested that the two guidelines should be \t\t\tapplied in parallel in certain sectors.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the need for an open and transparent process and called for progress on substantive, not just procedural, points.
IRAN noted the absence of criteria for assessing and elaborating the benefits of AIJ projects and said these were subject to different interpretations by the Parties.
Discussions focused on, inter alia: urging developed countries that have not completed the process of responding to the initial fundraising target to do so at the earliest opportunity; encouraging Annex I parties to provide funding to reach the target of US$80 million per year in 2014-2015, and scale up funding from resources additional to the share of proceeds from CDM project activities, first international transfers of assigned amount units and the issuance of emission reduction units; the bidding process for the selection of a permanent trustee for the Adaptation Fund; and who to direct the request for further support for the readiness programme to.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP urged the conclusion of the AWG-LCA to allow implementation to begin and looked forward to progress toward an agreement applicable to all parties by 2020, while increasing ambition before 2020.
SAUDI ARABIA said he could not accept negotiations taking place outside the FCCC bodies and opposed the appointment of facilitators.
On needs assessment, Canada and the US proposed an integrated approach beyond needs assessment in a narrow sense, to improve the enabling environment for technology transfer.
Revealed were a new proposal from Germany on specific emissions reductions targets, Japan’s recommendation to incorporate joint implementation officially in future commitments, and even unabashed insistence from Canada and the US that all Parties should eventually take on new commitments.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the continuation of the forum on response measures and for further discussions of enhanced action on response measures.
IRAN sought enhanced data collection at regional and sub-regional levels.
The EU elaborated on a continuous process to scale up ambition, including through: understanding of the gap; implementation and enhancement of mitigation pledges; and identifying and launching complementary initiatives.
Noting the Trust Fund is strapped, the US said managing the scholarship fund required further review, suggested other organizations that focus on managing grants and programmes be considered, and noted a conflict of interest in keeping it in the IPCC.
BRAZIL said new options are needed to provide the vast resources required.
The GAMBIA called for concrete and immediate \t\taction by developed countries and early operationalization of the \t\tAdaptation Fund, and expressed disappointment with lack of progress on \t\tcapacity building.
The US warned that these recommendations would prohibit voluntary submissions from countries with other funding arrangements.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed economic and social impacts of trade and trade-related measures adopted by developed countries.
On the provision and generation of financial resources, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed concern that many of the proposals appeared to be donor/recipient arrangements.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and others expressed readiness to work based on the non-paper.
Japan emphasized that there was no guarantee that the US would agree to the assumed level, warning this would undermine the political durability of the process.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NORWAY said INDCs should address mitigation only.
On reporting under Articles 10 (existing commitments) and 11 (financial mechanism), the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and EU, said Annex I Parties should also be requested to report on the implementation of their commitments related to the transfer of technologies and the provision of "new and additional" financial resources.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted gaps in the implementation of obligations under the Convention and also called for enhancement of support.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed the convergence emerging at ADP 2, and invited delegates to work on specific thematic areas, including climate finance, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
BRAZIL called for enhancing comparability as part of the IAR process.
CHINA, echoed by SAUDI ARABIA and IRAQ, \t\tsaid it should be necessary for applicants to first obtain approval from \t\ttheir national governments.
The US, supported by SAMOA, suggested that the Secretariat develop terms of reference (TORs) for future workshops in accordance with decision 13/CP.7 (P&amp;Ms), which refers to adverse effects.
GUYANA, CHINA, PAKISTAN, OMAN and GABON noted that the level of Annex I aggregate emission reductions currently on the table does not reach the level of ambition needed, and called on Annex I countries to increase their pledges.
TIMOR LESTE suggested streamlining the section on loss and damage.
Supported by INDONESIA and CANADA, she called upon SBSTA to request a Secretariat paper on work under Article 6 for SBSTA-9.
The US said JI should be negotiated in tandem with the negotiation of new aims or strengthening of the Convention, because a JI programme would benefit the Convention.
SWITZERLAND noted that the new fund should complement existing financial mechanisms.
On LULUCF, CANADA said the current rules are a starting point but improvements are needed.
Japan, Australia and the Russian Federation, opposed by the US, the EU and Canada, supported adoption by a decision.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing areas with little divergence and issues in part 3 of the tool (provisions whose placement requires further clarity).
The Netherlands, Canada, the US, Australia and Peru were among those proposing possible criteria.
LICHTENSTEIN presented a reduction of at least 20% between 2013 and 2020 compared to 1990 levels, saying the level of ambition could rise to 30% if other developed countries make comparable commitments and economically more advanced developing countries also take appropriate mitigation action.
Chair Jos e9 Romero said that new texts on improving the guidelines had been received from the EU and from AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US.
The EU suggested holding technical expert meetings in addition to political discussions during the autumn.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, supported an agreement on a second commitment period, the introduction of a REDD+ mechanism on a voluntary basis, and eliminating loopholes in the rules on LULUCF.
NIGERIA stated that consumer and ethical values may create trade barriers between high and low energy intensive countries.
SAUDI ARABIA urged further discussion.
NORWAY noted flexibility about whether his country’s commitments are under the Kyoto Protocol, as part of a balanced outcome, or under a global agreement.
The ARAB GROUP and the LMDCs opposed reference to carbon pricing.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the importance of addressing national forest governance and the need for progress by Cancún on MRV of support, operationalization of safeguards, reference levels and long-term finance.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, called for development of performance indicators for monitoring and evaluating capacity building.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA urged adopting the guidelines for both the UNFCCC and the Protocol in order to prepare national inventories in time for entry into force of the Protocol.
NORWAY stated that it is possible for parties to discuss the form and substance in parallel.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, and opposed by MALAYSIA, CHINA and ARGENTINA, said the report provided a sound basis to initiate the revised UNFCCC guidelines.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said the facilitative and punitive aspects of taking measures against non-compliance should be incorporated in a balanced way.
 The US said that analysis and assessment should be an integral part of the process but are only a means to a course of action.
BRAZIL informed parties that it would provide clarification on its dynamic e2 80 9cconcentric differentiation e2 80 9d concept in an informal setting.
\t\tThe G-77/CHINA, GAMBIA, GRENADA, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK and others, \t\topposed by JAPAN, said discussions on further Annex I commitments should \t\tbe concluded by 2008.
JAPAN, HONDURAS and several Latin American Parties, opposed by TUVALU, proposed deleting the list of requirements for project activities.
Spain, for the EU, highlighted the need to make progress on technical issues in order to guarantee the environmental integrity of the outcome in Cancún.
The GAMBIA underlined the need for appropriate technologies, capacity building, and enhanced international cooperation.
The EU approved extending the minimum information required and recommended that the revised guidelines include direction for preferred timetables.
The EU highlighted the need to build “a better technical understanding” of the scale of the implementation gap, calling for clarification of pledges, and progress on REDD+ finance and bunker fuels.
MEXICO stated that conclusions adopted in Bonn strengthen “the democratic traditions of the Convention,” which were also upheld during the adoption of the Cancun Agreements.
JAPAN supported the original Option C, but not with the US amendments, which tremendously increased ambiguities and uncertainties.
Nauru, on behalf of AOSIS, called for the workstream on ambition to be prioritized in order to reach agreement on a new protocol, and opposed a separate roundtable on principles, saying these should not be discussed in isolation.
The US highlighted the need for an integrated approach to all capacity-building efforts.
She also lamented unpredictability of funds for the Global Observing Systems (GCOS) for Climate in Support of the UNFCCC, and lamented the lack of funding for the LDC work programme.
The US and others rejected the proposal for a workshop, \t\targuing that the report provides a sound basis for countries to take \t\taction.
The US observed that although \t\t\tthe synthesis report contained a number of good ideas, they may not \t\t\tall be actionable by the SBI.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION insisted on symmetric treatment of Protocol Articles 6 (JI) and 12 (CDM).
AOSIS proposed a multi-window mechanism with the following components: insurance; rehabilitation/compensation; and risk management.
TUVALU noted the need to differentiate between COP decisions to be taken prior to the entry into force of the agreement and those taken thereafter.
Welcoming the decision, MEXICO noted it attaches utmost importance to the issue.
Raising a point of order, the US stated that as his country is not a party to the Kyoto Protocol and does not intend to become one, such joint discussions would not be appropriate for the US.
PERU noted the need for effective international and domestic programmes and infrastructures.
Supported by MALAYSIA, he stated that Annex I data was not comparable to Annex II data.
SINGAPORE urged developed countries to refrain from taking unilateral measures, and to accommodate and acknowledge national circumstances.
The EU noted that parties agreed, in light of the exceptional circumstances of COP 21, to focus on streamlining the decision.
GUATEMALA called for a clear distinction between fast-track and long-term finance.
The UK explained that this will provide for a prompt response to the IAC recommendations and will allow moving forward with the AR5.
BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, the US, IRAN, HONDURAS and NORWAY supported the inclusion of sinks projects in the CDM on the grounds that, inter alia: nearly one-fifth of global emissions come from deforestation and almost 90% of emissions from tropical countries are from LULUCF activities.
SWITZERLAND noted that precipitation in central Europe in winter has increased by 40%, with more intense rainfall rather than more days of precipitation, which has resulted in flooding.
TUVALU and ARGENTINA supported further work on maritime and aviation transport emissions but urged considering implications of their coverage, such as to tourism.
BRAZIL supported projects in large cities.
URUGUAY said the lack of institutional and legal capacity was a barrier to CDM implementation.
The EU, supported by Saudi Arabia, requested an adjournment to allow for further consultations among the regional groups.
The EU called for referencing carbon pricing, and the role of all parties in mobilizing climate finance in line with evolving responsibilities and capabilities.
On the objectives of the work programme, the US and others suggested using those contained in Article 6.
ICELAND drew attention to the social dimension of climate change, taking account of gender considerations and participation of all sections of society.
Several non-Annex I Parties expressed concern that this position would make it difficult to move forward, and KUWAIT noted that this could result in the whole package of issues being blocked.
MALAYSIA and BELGIUM noted that the Special \t\tReport referred to 20 - 40% global fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions \t\tas being technically suitable for capture, and proposed deleting \t\treference to economic suitability.
 \t\t\tIn the \t\t\tquestion and answer session, participants addressed, inter alia, \t\t\tjoint fulfillment of commitments within the EU, spillover effects of \t\t\tmitigation, and the agricultural sector’s contribution.
AILAC, the EU and the US supported early entry into force, and, with the LMDCs, emphasized it should not affect parties’ right to fully participate in the rulemaking process.
The US identified the TEC, the CTCN and the Climate Technology Initiative Private Financing Advisory Network as means for capacity building.
CHINA cautioned the compliance group against prejudging the rules that will be developed in the mechanisms group.
CANADA proposed text requesting the Secretariat to prepare a report on the workshop for consideration at SBSTA-21.
TUVALU requested that all brackets be removed to clarify that the document was not a decision text.
The US said it has committed US$300 million in 2010 for adaptation, ten times the amount in the 2009 budget.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said efforts to mitigate climate change must meet the highest standards of environmental integrity and that Annex I parties should report on all gases with high global warming potential.
The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by AOSIS, said those aiming to leave the Kyoto Protocol are not doing so because they want to do more, but because they want to do less.
CANADA stressed elaborating the concept of an enabling environment to ensure that it does not imply delays in initiating capacity building activities.
IRAN raised the issue of financing developing countries 92 efforts to provide information.
Japan, backed by the UK and others, supported consideration of abrupt changes and irreversibility post-2100, which Co-Chair Masson-Delmotte confirmed would be done.
The G-77/China, with the US and China, expressed its full support for the Delhi Declaration.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need for equitable geographic distribution in the compliance committee.
TURKEY, MEXICO, SOUTH AFRICA and others pointed out that they have already undertaken national mitigation actions.
AOSIS stressed the need for an early and robust ADP process.
While the Russian Federation and \t\tUkraine supported this course of action, the EU noted legal and \t\tpractical difficulties.
The Czech Republic, for the European Union (EU), identified the need for low carbon development strategies, and said developing countries should reduce emissions by 15-30% below business as usual projections by 2020.
Recalling it had only become an Annex I party in 2013, CYPRUS, inter alia: said it has a 5% non-ETS reduction target by 2020, compared to 2005; presented on sectoral mitigation policies and measures; and noted that Cyprus is e2 80 9con its way e2 80 9d to meet its 2020 target.
BRAZIL favored calculating the burden starting from a baseline year.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for strong representation of LDCs and SIDS on the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
The US said it could be flexible on this issue.
Parties agreed to forward the outcome of the work of the AWG-KP (FCCC/KP/AWG/2012/L.3), as orally amended by AOSIS, to the CMP for consideration and finalization.
MEXICO recommended the CMA facilitate finance communications.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, opposed.
Drawing attention to climatic disasters and threats to food security, Nicaragua, for SICA, stressed adaptation as a priority for the Group and highlighted the role of traditional knowledge in this regard.
UKRAINE said the energy sector is the main source of its emissions and outlined projected emissions under different economic scenarios.
The EU said insurance is a useful but context-dependent tool.
Slovenia, for the EU, said parties should agree on conclusions at this session.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the Gambia, for LDCs, supported a five-year second commitment period from 2013-2017 to avoid locking in the level of ambition and to be able to respond to the findings of the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
CHINA stressed that NAMAs should be coordinated with development and poverty eradication goals.
BOLIVIA objected to the “market-oriented” focus of the text.
BRAZIL cautioned against reopening negotiations on REDD+, which he viewed as linked to the finance section.
The US agreed that decisions on baselines and related issues should be made with the approval of the Board or an appointed expert group serving under it.
Jim Penman (UK) undertook informal consultations.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), stressed, among others, cooperative approaches as providing additional financial resources to facilitate achievement of NDCs.
The US, supported by Japan and others, expressed preference for basing discussions on Annex III of document FCCC/SBI/2007/15.
BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, PAKISTAN and INDIA opposed contributions from sub-national authorities to high-level events.
e2 80 9d TANZANIA, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, urged enhancing capacities of national governments to absorb financial and technological resources, and opposed reference to e2 80 9cclear and predictable targets and outcomes.
On IAR, SOUTH AFRICA suggested focusing on process.
TURKEY said the process should not be prescriptive.
SAUDI ARABIA said discussions should focus on technical issues.
MICRONESIA requested representation of small island developing States (SIDS) in the IPCC and expert groups.
In paragraph VII(a), on requests to the Secretariat, CHINA said that the G-77 and China approach paper was the only paper submitted by non-Annex I Parties.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with BANGLADESH, PAKISTAN and others, underlined that this mechanism should lead to action on technology and go beyond assessments or information exchange.
Australia and Spain, for the EU, emphasized that the document should acknowledge that implementation is already occurring.
BANGLADESH called for establishing a mechanism to address loss and damage by COP 18.
These assignments are: Minister Onkokame Mokaila of Botswana for shared vision; Minister Tim Groser of New Zealand for developed and developing country mitigation; Minister María Fernanda Espinosa of Ecuador for the Adaptation Committee; Special Envoy Claudia Salerno of Venezuela for response measures; Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet of France on sectoral approaches; and Minister Chris Huhne of the UK for Review.
NEW ZEALAND pointed out that the Kyoto Protocol only covers 15% of emissions and noted that if only parties participating in the second commitment period can access the CDM, the demand for CDM projects is likely to be insufficient.
POLAND said adaptation and funding for climate change must go hand-in-hand with mitigation and long-term strategies.
The US, supported by GERMANY and the UK, proposed that the SBI should keep the arrangements of the conference under review and recommends that any new, substantive proposals concerning these arrangements be communicated well in advance of the start of the conference.
The US suggested, as an alternative, text stating that global economic impacts from climate change are difficult to estimate.
The EU noted a clear decision on the future use of market mechanisms and indicated readiness to conclude discussions.
South Africa, for BASIC, highlighted unresolved issues, including equity, intellectual property rights (IPRs) and unilateral trademeasures.
Switzerland highlighted his country’s proposal for a uniform global levy of US$2 per tonne of CO2, except on the LDCs.
EGYPT proposed that commitments, contributions and actions be country-driven, gender-sensitive and focused on vulnerable groups, such as women and children.
SAINT LUCIA called for, inter alia, common reporting formats and the use of common IPCC guidelines and metrics.
Regarding health benefits of \t\t\tclimate change in some cold areas, the US, opposed by Germany, \t\t\tsuggested referring to industrialized areas instead of temperate \t\t\tareas since the studies refer only to industrialized areas, or else \t\t\tadding some words in relation to limitations in the data.
 \t\t\tDuring the \t\t\tensuing discussion, CANADA outlined its mitigation measures in the \t\t\tagricultural sector, including a possible emissions trading scheme.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the group would work as hard and constructively as possible to conclude comprehensive and robust guidance for the Paris Agreement.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported starting negotiations but opposed the Co-Chairs’ proposal to move to a smaller setting.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said that a central component of COP 23 must be a strong and effective enhanced transparency framework.
JAPAN observed that it would reserve the right to confer privileges and immunities on constituted bodies, on a case-by-case basis as necessary.
Reaffirming that the pre-2020 mitigation ambition is an absolute priority for AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS stressed the need to provide regular opportunities for high-level meetings that put the issue of removal of conditions at the top of the political agenda.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, called for the APA to give equal attention to all issues, and for flexibility for developing countries in the transparency framework.
The EU welcomed the perceived convergence towards temporary crediting and, with TUVALU, underscored the importance of socioeconomic and environmental impact criteria.
AUSTRALIA expressed support for the proposed budget.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the outcomes on NDCs, adaptation, the transparency framework, the GST, and finance and means of implementation.
The EU highlighted its experience with a top-down approach, which looks at science for defining the scale of necessary emission reductions, and then works bottom up to identify how emissions could be reduced and through which sectors.
Panel presentations: BANGLADESH noted the adverse effects from climate change affecting his country, including flooding, impacts on agricultural production, malnutrition, and the risk of higher incidences of some diseases.
On Monday morning AWG-LCA Chair Dan Reifsnyder (US) opened the workshop saying the Technology Mechanism could be a powerful new tool to achieve adaptation and mitigation actions and noted that parties need to take steps to make the mechanism operational in 2012.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed adding language on “the broad nature of negative impacts” on developing country parties, particularly those countries whose economies are dependent on producing and exporting agricultural products, and on developed countries reaffirming Convention Article 3.5 (open and inclusive economic systems).
CANADA expressed uncertainty as to what the review would accomplish.
AOSIS said the text on how to define anthropogenic removals of emissions was ambiguous.
 CANADA restated its support for the conclusions contained in the SAR.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the need for the AWG-KP to fulfill its mandate in Qatar by adopting amendments concerning the second commitment period of the Protocol.
On expressing a  , AOSIS highlighted, inter alia: limiting temperature increase to well below 1.5°C from pre-industrial levels; peaking emissions by 2015; stabilizing greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations at well below 350 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent; and a global long-term goal for emission reductions of 85% from 1990 levels by 2050.
NORWAY emphasized universality and, with SWITZERLAND, flexibility to accommodate parties e2 80 99 different capabilities.
ICELAND said LULUCF should not be seen as a loophole.
Noting that all financial actors have to work together, FRANCE called for thinking about how climate and development finance can be combined.
On paragraph 8 (expertise), delegates agreed, based on proposals from GHANA and the EU, the Committee should comprise persons nominated by governments who are experts in relevant fields, such as science, socio-economics and the environment.
On a proposal by the G-77/ CHINA to delete Part III on the review of information on AA, the US said the guidelines should provide for review of information related to AA.
On amendments to the new agreement’s annexes, the EU proposed that parties may adjust their mitigation commitments upward, to be accepted unless three-fourths of parties object, and that withdrawals from the agreement be possible only when a party has complied with its commitments.
The PHILIPPINES, for the Asian Group and supported by INDIA, PAKISTAN, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA, KUWAIT AND IRAN, stated that no agreement had been reached on the election of the Vice-Chair because the incumbent regional group intended to keep it for a second term.
A number of countries, including the EU, the G-77/CHINA, MALAYSIA, CANADA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA and THAILAND, emphasized the importance of specialized information centers and networks.
The US reaffirmed its commitment to 17% emission reductions below 2005 levels by 2020.
He noted support expressed by the EU leaders for 80-95% emission reductions by 2050 from 1990 levels, and called on other developed countries to adopt the same goal.
AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, proposed moving the preambular text on the mechanisms being supplementary to domestic action to the operative part and then inserting an option maintaining the status quo.
 The consultations began Tuesday evening with approximately 30 delegates working from the G-77 draft decision and the EU and US papers from INC-11.
The US said the cycle should include: submission of contributions; a consultative period; formalization of contributions; and review.
INDIA welcomed the Chair\'s revised proposal and urged all to extend their unqualified support.
 \t\tThe EU, the G-77/CHINA \t\tand SAUDI ARABIA welcomed the decision by Australia to ratify the \t\tProtocol.
FRANCE noted contradictory messages condemning and calling for French aid.
Finally, the AOSIS added a new paragraph (6)(tris) referring to the usefulness of working with a limited number of scenarios.
The US called for e2 80 9ca strategic use e2 80 9d of ministers, including in the TEMs.
INDONESIA called for equal progress on REDD+ issues under both the SBSTA and AWG-LCA, and suggested considering countries’ existing forest monitoring systems.
The EU described Finnish and French agro-ecological projects, and German wetland restoration and flood management.
CHINA and MALAYSIA recommended combining paragraphs on resource allocation and requests for support to the EGTT.
AUSTRALIA stressed that as a party that will “actually be taking on an Annex I commitment,” he had “trouble understanding” why parties would prevent discussions that would help with making those commitments, underlining that those parties were blocking progress on a second commitment period.
The Russian Federation, supported by Saudi Arabia and the US, expressed concern that including reference to the global stocktake in this chapter would imply an obligation for the IPCC to analyze the level of adaptation and presented alternative text.
BANGLADESH noted a proposal for an international aviation and maritime transport levy.
Uruguay, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the role of adaptation communications in: communicating needs, priorities and plans in catalyzing action and support; achieving parity with mitigation; and assisting developing countries in achieving the global goal on adaptation.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted dialogues that have already taken place in the region, and identified predictable finance and technology transfer as cornerstones for achieving the Paris Agreement’s goals.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored adaptation as a major priority, and proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund under the Convention.
Suggesting that the “green revolution” provides important lessons on the role of technology transfer in agriculture and that it has contributed to increases in food production, but did not protect small farmers and respect the role of indigenous and local knowledge, GUATEMALA urged considering the most vulnerable sectors of the society.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that remaining uncertainties regarding whether mitigation efforts will be effective for reducing climate change justify pursuing adaptation.
Grenada, for AOSIS, submitted a proposal for a draft COP decision, containing, inter alia, a request for the AWG-LCA to “continue its work, with a renewed sense of urgency” in order to present to COP 17 “a legally-binding instrument under the Convention as its final agreed outcome.” COSTA RICA and a number of AOSIS members urged the AWG-LCA to continue working with a clear mandate to adopt a legally-binding instrument at COP 17 in Durban.
IPCC Secretary Christ introduced this agenda item (IPCC-XLI/Doc.7), with the Panel agreeing to admit three new observer organizations: Action Jeunesse pour le D c3 a9veloppement (Republic of Congo); Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute (Australia); and the School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University (US).
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, for India, China, the Philippines, El Salvador, Dominica, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Argentina, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Venezuela, Malaysia, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Algeria and Iran, and China, for BASIC, underscored that the ADP is not a venue to “renegotiate, rewrite, or reinterpret” the Convention principles.
Palau, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on streamlining application processes.
On other matters and countries with economies in transition to a market economy, BELARUS, for Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, supported a spin-off group on the issue to complete work.
BRAZIL noted that this issue alone could undermine the Kyoto Protocol if the COP takes a wrong decision on how to account for the influence of forestry on GHG concentrations.
The Federated States of Micronesia agreed that the AWG-KP should move forward independently of the AWG-LCA, and proposed using either the public announcements by the US or other numbers, such as a 25% or 45% reduction, as an assumption for defining the Annex I aggregate range.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, inter alia, called for an action-oriented NWP and identified the need to strengthen linkages between the NWP and SBI.
The EU outlined unique features of REDD+ results-based finance, including that: it is land-based; covers large areas; affects livelihoods; deals with complex drivers; and necessitates safeguards.
AUSTRALIA suggested that losses in potential oil revenue could result in growth prospects in other areas that could compensate for any hypothetical loss predicted under these models.
GERMANY said the EU would build a coalition of like-minded countries willing to commit themselves to timetables and targets for increasing renewable energy use.
 For paragraph 4, on meetings of subsidiary bodies, the EU and Argentina commented that convening the meetings in conjunction with the sessions of the COP would not allow the Secretariat time to disseminate the results.
Willing to work with the second option, the US requested the dialogue to occur at every ADP session.
 SAUDI ARABIA said that setting QELROs is not only the business of Annex I countries and expressed surprise at the low level of participation of developing countries in the workshop.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged flexibility and called for progress on a NAMA registry.
The US emphasized work undertaken over the past two days on the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper and progress already achieved.
Concerning project monitoring, the EU said participants should provide information on their provisions for systematic, accurate and periodic monitoring and submit the necessary monitoring data to show that the project has resulted in quantifiable and long-term reductions.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for considering the IPCC special report on 1.5 c2 b0C before COP 24; and for countries to take into account Dialogue outcomes when communicating their NDCs in 2020.
Certain OECD countries, including the US and Australia, could not endorse the AOSIS protocol as the basis for future negotiations because of the targets, timetables and the focus on CO2 emissions rather than GHG emissions as a whole.
In response to CHINA e2 80 99s query on the drivers of a projected increase in Spain e2 80 99s non-EU ETS emissions by 2020, he explained that a new strategy, titled e2 80 98Roadmap 2020, e2 80 99 is expected to place Spain e2 80 9con track e2 80 9d towards its non-EU ETS emission reduction target of 10% compared to 2005 levels.
MEXICO said questions on OECD membership are inappropriate.
 \t\tThe US objected to the concept of
An informal facilitated discussion group, co-facilitated by Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) and Tosi Mpanu Mpanu (the Democratic Republic of the Congo), agreed to the consolidation proposals.
Opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and supported by MEXICO and the EU, he recommended renewing SBSTA 92s mandate on this issue.
SAUDI ARABIA called for, inter alia, a platform to report on impacts of response measures.
The UK added evaluation of conflict of interest should be completed before the applicant can participate in IPCC activities.
AOSIS expected an integration of climate financing.
 Jean-Pascal van Ypersele, Chair of the Task Force established to consider future activities of the IPCC by IPCC Chair Pachauri at IPCC-28, consisting of China, Morocco, the Netherlands, Uganda, the US, Belgium, Pachauri, and the IPCC Secretariat, explained that the Task Force had met twice during this session, and produced an interim report (IPCC-XXIX/INF.5).
The EU lamented that some key parts of the agreement had been moved to decisions.
In the absence of these amendments, Bolivia, opposed by the EU and the Philippines, urged deletion of paragraphs 15-23 (upfront information and review of INDCs).
The UK, with France, noted a lack of balance between this sentence and a subsequent one addressing the trend of increased sea ice extent around Antarctica, stressing that what is happening in the Arctic is graver than in Antarctica, and proposed drawing more on the WGI SPM and quantifying the issue of sea ice in the two regions.
JAPAN expressed concern \t\tabout a reference to the Protocol\'s market mechanisms.
Responding to a request by the US, the Secretariat provided an update of the implementation of the Climate Change Information Network (CC:iNet).
The EU, China, Belize, Panama, Saudi Arabia, AOSIS and others proposed several specific workshops related to adaptation.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with translation of documents and the multiplicity of contact- and sub-groups.
NORWAY, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND said the LMDCs CRP goes beyond the Warsaw mandate, with AUSTRALIA saying implementation of the Bali Action Plan is addressed elsewhere.
UGANDA emphasized the need to consider concrete actions.
On the relationship between efforts to protect the stratospheric ozone layer and to safeguard the global climate system, Richard Bradley (US) reported on informal consultations.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, stressed the importance of a formal space at COP 24 for the “critical” input of the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, SLOVENIA, NORWAY, and CANADA, supported the consideration of a multi-year work programme, and the streamlining of each session 92s agenda.
Noting the divergence of views on how best to address loss and damage, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for engagement on this issue during the week.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at the “insistence” of Annex I parties on a single outcome in Copenhagen and urged parties to build on the Protocol’s success by establishing more ambitious targets for the second commitment period, as well as developing the means to address the potential consequences of Annex I parties’ policies and measures on developing countries.
BRAZIL, with CHINA and SAMOA, urged reference to a formal letter of agreement.
The EU said SBSTA should use a wide range of approaches and methodologies, including case-studies, technical papers, and workshops, and draw on activities being developed by stakeholders.
The US delegation and US Secretary of State John Kerry did their best to represent the Obama Administration, while sharing others’ uncertainty of what lies ahead for their country’s climate policy.
NEW ZEALAND called for using existing mechanisms and frameworks.
The EU presented on the impact of four LULUCF accounting rule options on aggregate emission reductions, noting that different accounting rules have major implications for individual Annex I Parties but that negotiations have narrowed the differences of impacts on individual parties.
The EU stressed the need to design a global stocktake process fit for assessing collective progress while driving domestic action and global ambition, and characterized the 2018 facilitative dialogue as a precedent for the global stocktake.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 welcomes increased allocation and disbursement of funds to LDC parties under the LDCF;
AUSTRALIA stressed the need for flexible review mechanisms to allow for taking into account changing circumstances.
NIGERIA expressed reservations about creating centers that could be mono-sectoral in scope, and said regional centers that addressed a number of related areas would be preferable.
On Expedited Procedure for Cases Related to the Kyoto Mechanisms, SOUTH AFRICA supported such a procedure and, with CHINA, proposed the establishment of an eligibility panel.
UGANDA highlighted access to weather and climate information, and called for strengthening national early warning systems and community-level capacity building.
UGANDA and Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the utility of a review period to examine the level of domestic action.
TIMOR-LESTE, with MALAWI, stressed that funding should be grant- rather than loan-based.
Some countries, including JAPAN and the US, noted the urgent need for a decision on which anthropogenic activities should be included because it influences the ability of some countries to ratify and implement the Protocol.
KUWAIT, QATAR, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA and JAPAN expressed confidence that, as technical experts in the field of bunker fuels, ICAO and IMO are currently the best venues for addressing these issues.
QATAR opposed, underscoring procedural concerns.
The EU, Japan, Australia and Canada urged holding joint sessions with the AWG-LCA on Annex I parties’ aggregate emission reductions, noting the difficulty in discussing these numbers in the absence of some major emitting countries.
The LDCs, the EU and the US, opposed by INDIA, suggested considering South-South cooperation in the 2015 agreement.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need for: exchanging information; developing the carbon market; engaging in specific sectors and/or regional initiatives; enabling new mitigation technologies through cooperation and partnerships; and ensuring mutual support.
NEW ZEALAND said it should be up to the compliance body to determine cases where there should be facilitation or enforcement.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted additionality, stressing that this is wider than baselines.
SAMOA, supported by the EU, BELIZE, and JAMAICA, questioned the utility of vulnerability indices, while EGYPT supported them.
The AFRICAN GROUP urged assessing the impact of mitigation measures on Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
KUWAIT, OMAN and SAUDI ARABIA requested more time for consideration.
KAZAKHSTAN highlighted its proposed level of commitment as “unprecedented” and said her country’s transition to a low-emission economy requires using the carbon market and private investment.
CANADA questioned the Co-Chair 92s assumption that there was a general agreement on the need for a distinct institutional treatment for mechanisms.
\t\tSwitzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the \t\tcontinuance of the \t\tDialogue in a format to be determined by parties in \t\tBali, and MEXICO called for an immediate follow-up to build consensus \t\tand promote a framework for action, with Bali providing a basis for \t\tnegotiations.
Parties could not agree to an EU proposal requesting the Executive Secretary and the GEF to explore synergies between the review processes of the UNFCCC and the GEF, and deleted this paragraph.
In the text, parties agreed to “take into account” the LULUCF principles of decision 16/CMP.1 instead of agreeing that the principles continue to apply, as preferred by the G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND and others.
THE BAHAMAS, with SINGAPORE, highlighted that per capita criteria disadvantage small countries.
The US, with the EU and Australia, said capacity building should be integrated throughout the relevant chapters in the draft negotiating text.
ESTONIA highlighted the decoupling of its economic and emissions growth, and its ratification of the Doha Amendment.
The US called on Parties with economies in transition (EIT) to take into account the good practice guidance as soon as possible and said non-Annex I guidelines should also incorporate good practice.
e2 80 9d BRAZIL said work that has been done under the Cancun Adaptation Framework and NWP should be recognized.
The US noted that \t\tit is important that this process lead to improvement in the quality of \t\tinformation collected and that there is a need to identify the target \t\taudience before undertaking activities such as promotion of \t\tunderstanding of climate risks and vulnerabilities.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, stressed that additional resources should be mobilized for the implementation of NAPAs in LDCs.
After a brief discussion during which VENEZUELA and KUWAIT suggested that a written report accompany SBSTA decisions, delegates adopted the provisional agenda for the session (FCCC/CP/1996/1/Annex I).
He stressed the willingness of the EU to consider a second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, as part of a wider outcome that engages all major economies.
The US highlighted innovative technologies.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: agreement on results-based objectives; conformity with Convention principles; and consideration of mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation.
 The G-77/CHINA emphasized the need to bring Doha amendments on the second commitment period into effect at the earliest opportunity.
On   (Article 7), Canada, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, called for less focus on barriers, adding text on enabling environments.
 The EU’s proposed
With the US, they encouraged further discussion on the option of holding round-tables.
The Chair alluded to the fact that the text of the Article on voluntary commitments had originally been submitted by AOSIS countries, and therefore, by members of the G-77/China.
The G-77/CHINA stressed putting into context the role of governments and the private sector in removing barriers and restrictions to technology transfer.
He described the role of the EU Emission Trading System (ETS) and its growing influence on private sector investment behavior.
On obstacles to producing non-Annex I communications, the G-77/CHINA called for provision of adequate financial resources, technical assistance and capacity building to support non-Annex I Parties in collecting data and identifying national emissions factors and methodologies for adaptation assessment.
The US said that unmanaged growth of emissions in developing countries will negate mitigation efforts by developed countries.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed satisfaction with the reconstitution of the CGE while lamenting that the time lost in the absence of the CGE cannot be regained.
The UK, Spain and Germany supported including \t\t\tinformation on sea-level rise.
AUSTRALIA recommended road-mapping to identify gaps and said capacity building should respond to needs at sub-national, national and regional levels.
The EU emphasized the importance of a “robust” carbon price for investment decisions and the role of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme in achieving this during the first commitment period.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted the progress made at the Barcelona meeting, saying that text had been streamlined and clarified.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the usefulness of some spin-off groups, in particular on differentiation.
SWITZERLAND said environmental and technical information is essential to ensure the transparency of pledges and as a basis for discussions on level of ambition and comparability of efforts.
The EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and JAPAN opposed this \t\tinsertion, noting that work on the CRF had been finalized.
AUSTRALIA and CANADA suggested dealing with Article 3.3 (afforestation, reforestation and deforestation) and 3.4 (additional activities) as a package.
While stressing that adaptation and mitigation should receive equal treatment and resources, India called for a shared understanding on “political parity.” Saying “parity” is vague, the US proposed “underscoring the importance of adaptation.”
During discussions, the US queried the AOSIS figures set out in an analysis of aggregate Annex I parties’ emission reductions for 2020.
Under General Procedure, NEW ZEALAND emphasized language expressing the need for Parties to provide additional information.
On supplementarity, the G-77/CHINA highlighted the primacy of domestic action and recommended the development of guidelines on supplementarity.
The G-77/CHINA underscored that non-Annex I countries’ divergent needs for preparation of national communications are not adequately recognized, saying this is inconsistent with the requirement in the Convention to provide resources to meet the agreed full costs.
 AUSTRALIA said irrespective of form, the legal instrument needs to address all GHGs, sources and sinks in a comprehensive manner, as well as all the BM.
The EU emphasized a collective target to reduce emissions by 30% below 1990 levels by 2020 and by 80-90% by 2050.
 POLAND said that in light of the broad scope of policies and measures that have already been applied, it is inappropriate to narrow the list of possibilities at this stage.
CHINA, supported by EGYPT and INDIA, requested clarifying the nature of the expected outcomes from SB 48, which the annotated agenda refers to as “recommendations.” Highlighting the APA Co-Chairs’ aim to have a negotiating text by the end of this session, CHINA asked whether work on this SBI agenda item and the item on LDCs would also lead to negotiating text.
The US said this issue should be dealt with in the context of inventories and called for procedures on how the ERT will deal with confidential data.
The PHILIPPINES requested a separate item on review of development and transfer of technologies (Decision 7/COP-2).
BRAZIL said a shared vision should cover all building blocks, guided by the provisions and principles of the Convention.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported progress on LULUCF, including on accounting rules and forest management baselines.
On a paragraph on preparing a negotiating text on the basis of annex I of the draft decision text, CUBA, supported by Malaysia, for the LMDCs, proposed e2 80 9cacknowledging e2 80 9d the work of the ADP and e2 80 9cdeciding that the ADP continue its work in 2015 to finish the elaboration of the draft negotiating text.
CHINA said the GEF ef bf bdcake ef bf bd was barely enough to go around 130 developing countries.
BRAZIL noted convergence on agriculture issues and URUGUAY welcomed the text on agriculture.
 The EU stated that the issue could be advanced by informal discussions before SBI-6.
BRAZIL preferred no COP/MOP decision on the issue and questioned the value of continuing the discussions.
The EU suggested that research and systematic observations be combined with capacity building and training.
Many, including New Zealand, US, Austria and Japan, expressed a deep concern about the delay with hiring a senior communications specialist who should be involved in the development of the strategy.
CHINA stressed that ethics requires consideration of both future and current generations and emphasized the need for an innovative low-carbon development path.
COLOMBIA said a review of the financial mechanism this year is premature and more time is needed to examine the results of the GEF’s investment projects.
The US and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by the EU, said the Co-Chairs ef bf bd proposal to include discussions on information exchange regarding methodol ef bf bdogies for assessing mitigation and adaptation technologies overlaps with SBSTA ef bf bds ongoing work.
JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA called for coherence and consistency between the two AWGs.
The UK proposed adopting the document as a COP decision and allowing the proper recognition of those countries who objected.
UGANDA underscored the good will of the business community and public awareness on climate issues.
SWEDEN said policy-makers should focus on equity issues and modalities for the adoption of technologies at local levels.
 \t\tAOSIS supported a \t\tspecific programme of work and special funding for SIDS, and said the \t\tCOP/MOP should be the supreme body for the Adaptation Fund.
The G-77/China, \t\tthe EU, Japan, Mexico, AOSIS and many others said that Article 3.9 was \t\tnot the proper place to address voluntary commitments.
Malaysia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (LMDCs), INDIA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, among others, called for deleting the text.
The G-77/CHINA said: the issue is important to the Convention; a clear decision defining new commitments should be reached; and developed countries were shirking their responsibilities in this matter.
BRAZIL, PANAMA, INDIA and the EU identified the UNFCCC as the right forum for bunker fuel discussions.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for more adequately capturing parties’ views in iterations of draft text and emphasized the need to preserve the integrity of the Paris Agreement.
NORWAY and BRAZIL called for moving away from project-based approaches to finance.
The EU and PERU, opposed by MALAYSIA, said the issue should be considered as part of IPCC 92s TAR.
INDIA underlined the role of the host country in determining project eligibility.
The UK stressed the need for the development of low carbon technologies, immediate use of existing technologies, and clean development trajectories.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, urged \t\tcompensation for victims of climate change and immediate funding and \t\timplementation of completed National Adaptation Plans of Action (NAPAs).
BRAZIL opposed text suggesting that a starting date for the crediting period prior to the date of registration could be selected.
The EU stressed that allocation issues cannot be isolated from development of policies and measures for GHG emissions, and suggested that AGBM should elaborate policies and measures on bunker fuel emissions.
BOLIVIA suggested that Parties monitor their own projects and 93learn by doing.
Belgium, for the EU, said a Cancun outcome should further clarify parties’ emission reduction objectives with a view to limiting global average warming to 2°C and inscribing them under the AWG-KP process.
SOUTH AFRICA said he had hoped for more stringent stakeholder involvement but appreciated the balance.
The EU said the proposed finance board was “very problematic” and identified the need to discuss functions first and then decide which institutions should undertake them.
TUVALU and the G-77/CHINA proposed deleting reference to sustainable development and to multilateral environmental agreements.
On the transfer of technology under the CDM, NORWAY, supported by JAPAN, proposed amendments whereby furthering CDM project activities should, as appropriate, lead to the transfer of sound technology and knowledge in addition to that required under UNFCCC Article 4.7 (technology transfer) and Protocol Article 10 (continuing implementation of existing commitments).
SWITZERLAND expressed support for keeping text on effective participation of all stakeholders.
A number of parties, including AOSIS, the EU, MEXICO, NEW ZEALAND and the US, stressed the need to consider loss and damage, and response measures separately.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for outcomes on: using certified emission reductions from CDM project activities in LDCs, SIDS and Africa; extending the share of proceeds levy to AAUs and removal units; and increasing the share of proceeds from the mechanisms.
With CHINA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA, ARGENTINA, INDIA and others, opposed by the EU, SINGAPORE, MEXICO, AUSTRALIA and the US, he also suggested considering trade measures.
In relation to a question by SOUTH AFRICA on the consistency of the US target for 2020 with science, he noted the recent announcement of a target to reduce emissions by 26-28% by 2025 compared to 2005 levels, which, he explained, will double the pace of the decarbonization of the economy and is consistent with emission reductions of 80% by 2050.
The US, with HUNGARY, suggested that capacity building focus on implementation of the FCCC and Protocol, rather than sustainable development.
The EU listed types of actions developing countries could take within their respective capacities, such as energy efficiency measures, promotion of renewable energy, sectoral crediting and sectoral trading.
  On improving access to the CDM by specified host parties, Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported a geographically balanced system of quotas.
Germany, the Maldives, Hungary, Belgium, Japan, Norway, and the UK supported extending the mandate of the ATG-Finance.
MALI suggested that, if the UNFCCC can be considered a toolbox, the GCF is probably the most tangible way to tap its resources.
AUSTRALIA expressed commitment to the establishment of the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund, proposing that its board decide on how thematic areas will be funded.
BOLIVIA expressed “profound disappointment” over parties inserting “no text” options on issues that are of great interest to developing countries in the adaptation spin-off group.
INDONESIA said adaptation funding should include research.
Samoa, for AOSIS, said greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations must be stabilized well below 450 parts per million (ppm) and suggested the inclusion of new gases under the Protocol.
The EU called for a mechanism that looks into parties’ performance and has adequate triggers.
The EU proposed an Annex I aggregate emission reduction range of 30% by 2020.
94 Additional text proposed by the US, and supported by \t\tAustralia, Norway and Japan, recommended that subsidiary bodies and \t\tworkshops be scheduled \t\t 93so as to minimize \t\tweekend travel wherever possible.
Canada, opposed by the G-77/China and EU, suggested withdrawing the appendix on elaborating guidelines on national systems relating to AA units and/or PAAs.
The G-77/CHINA, and others, proposed that the agenda sub-item not be restricted to decision 5/CP.7, but address all matters related to Article 4.8.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the COP 23 outcomes provide a strong platform to continue to progress work next year on the Paris mandates.
The US, the EU, CANADA, JAPAN, NORWAY and others, objected to the insertion of certain titles in the paper, while ARGENTINA, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA supported retaining the titles.
The EU expressed hope that the flexibility mechanisms proposed under the Protocol would facilitate the transfer of technology.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed by many others, called for reference to the objective in the preamble rather than a separate section.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for progress on new work areas for the NWP, MRV and agriculture, addressing both mitigation and adaptation aspects.
Stressing that “pre-2020 action is back,” Brazil, on behalf of BASIC, said that stocktake sessions on pre-2020 action will contribute to raising collective ambition.
Regarding the expedited review for reinstatement of eligibility, the EU stressed the need for a process compatible with the regular review process and the compliance procedure.
The US, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and AUSTRALIA cautioned that the draft decision on LULUCF has yet to be finalized.
The ARAB GROUP opposed reference to e2 80 9cevolving e2 80 9d CBDRRC.
GUYANA and COLOMBIA stressed the need to create opportunities for countries with low deforestation rates to participate.
The EU called for a space for discussing enhanced collaboration between the Convention bodies on capacity building.
The EU and the US welcomed the GEF report, especially the operational strategy and its emphasis on enabling activities, and, along with POLAND, supported designation of the GEF as the permanent funding mechanism.
On differentiation, Argentina, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and CHINA suggested INDCs include differentiated information for Annex I, Annex II and non-Annex I parties.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for operationalizing a more efficient and equitable international financial mechanism.
 The US supported a suggestion by India and the EU to establish a smaller, open-ended group that would be a more appropriate forum for further discussion on this item.
The EU and others emphasized the need for sufficient progress to allow early entry into force of the Protocol.
On paragraph 4, Brazil, for Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Iran, for the LMDCs, the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, and Indonesia supported annexing the informal notes to the conclusions.
SLOVENIA, with others, said it would fulfill its Protocol commitments in the absence of the Protocol 92s entry into force.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored regional distribution as a priority and emphasized that excessive reliance on offsets is not acceptable.
NORWAY urged sufficient detail to enable tracking of progress towards the global goal.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for serious negotiations and a focused work programme with concrete milestones.
The EU and others highlighted the need for expert review and consideration of non-Annex I communications.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, observed that Annex I communications have provided little information on how policies and measures have impacted on developing countries.
JAPAN called for TEMs to make the best use of the TEC and Climate Technology Centre and Network.
KOREA expressed reservations about the inclusion of forestry under CDM and cautioned against the temptation to micromanage CDM through extended bureaucracies.
On whether the committee should have one or two functions, the EU stressed the committee should be a single body with a facilitative function that helps achieve compliance.
GUYANA, ECUADOR, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and EGYPT distinguished between climate finance and overseas development assistance.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, lamented the emerging imbalance in progress between APA, SBI, and SBSTA items.
The EU, supported by Norway \t\tand Colombia, proposed requesting IPCC to prepare an updated report by \t\tmid-2009 with a view to informing COP 15.
  The contact group met in the afternoon, followed by informal consultations chaired by Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) and Carlos Fuller (Belize).
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, requested a specific reference stating that the workshop last "for at least three days," but NEW ZEALAND and SAUDI ARABIA objected and the request was withdrawn.
 \t\tConsistent with their initial statements to plenary, AOSIS, China and \t\tothers expressed concern that the programme of work as it stood added \t\tlittle to work already underway, and called for practical and \t\tsubstantial outputs, while the US emphasized the need for stocktaking.
Referring to preambular language on financial resources required for adaptation and mitigation by developing countries, the EU emphasized that the aim is to strengthen the Convention’s implementation by drafting a meaningful legal text as opposed to a purely political declaration.
The UK and GHANA said scientific uncertainty should not be used as an excuse for inaction.
INDIA stressed that the proposals contained in the frameworks conflict with the Convention and the BAP, as they seek to erase the distinction between developed and developing countries and impose new mitigation and reporting commitments on the latter.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), emphasized the need for a COP decision on the Talanoa Dialogue, and said an omnibus decision on the PAWP would run the risk of progress on some agenda items being held back because other items are less evolved.
The EU highlighted the contact group’s “very specific mandate” to address Croatia’s appeal, while CANADA stated that the COP/MOP can take a comprehensive approach and also address the level of base year emissions.
The Maldives, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), supported enhancing the financial mechanism under the COP, and highlighted the importance of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) and the need for progress on the Nairobi Work Programme (NWP).
The US said disaster relief and resilience strategies should be integrated.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and the NETHERLANDS urged Parties not to wait for ratification before starting to implement actions to address climate change.
On a previous COP decision on the relationship between efforts to protect the stratospheric ozone layer and efforts to safeguard the global climate system, the EU suggested it should be a substantive agenda item at SBSTA-16.
The G-77/CHINA maintained that the draft conclusions failed to reflect the wider implementation of activities.
CHINA said that the text should not single out technologies or greenhouse gases.
The US preferred maintaining language on finance and technology transfers in a separate section.
The EU, with the US and Norway, proposed that the Co-Chairs work on specific decision language for consideration by the group.
INDIA underscored equitable sharing of carbon space based on a per capita cumulative share to achieve a 2°C pathway.
\t\tSupported by many, the US proposed explicit reference to the Laxenburg \t\tworkshop in the Task Group mandate.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment that some issues could not be resolved at this session.
Responding to numerous questions, the EU clarified that Annex X could include all Annex I countries and new OECD members.
NEW ZEALAND reiterated that they remain prepared to take on a second commitment period in the context of a comprehensive global agreement that contains legally-binding emission reduction targets for all major emitters.
India, \t\tfor the G-77/CHINA, highlighted recent accomplishments, including the \t\tawarding of the first certified emissions reductions (CERs).
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, said it was waiting for outcomes from the group on LULUCF under the CDM.
The US, Malaysia and Switzerland said the IPCC special report could provide guidance in continuing the work on implementing FCCC Article 4.5 (technology transfer).
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and the EU supported the mode of work presented by the Co-Chairs.
Noting that the text was unclear and that such a decision could be taken at any point in the future, the UK, opposed by Germany, the Netherlands, Ecuador and others, suggested deleting the paragraph.
  Convened by the EU, Canada, and China from 20-21 June 2018 in Brussels, Belgium, the MoCA brought together ministers and other representatives from 36 governments.
MECHANISMS: On CDM project monitoring, MAURITANIA said monitoring and reporting should not burden the host country.
AUSTRALIA proposed deleting a bracketed section on reporting on mechanisms projects, noting that this would be covered under Article 7.4.
The G-77/CHINA preferred to state in the conclusions that there was no agreement, or transmit the bracketed text to SBI-19.
NORWAY stressed national ownership and implementation.
The EU stressed the need to convey their concerns to the COP President on issues including on a legally binding outcome and mitigation.
JAPAN called for mid-term national targets using sectoral approaches, stressing they would not replace quantified targets and would differ for developed and developing countries.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, and Egypt, for the African Group, noted concern on “delinking” textual language from the Convention and dilution of Convention principles, particularly on differentiation.
EGYPT, PAKISTAN and others called for the consideration of how to conclude institutional arrangements between the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and the COP.
KYRGYZSTAN, also speaking for Tajikistan, Bhutan and Nepal, called for more attention to landlocked mountainous developing countries.
On review of information and possible decisions under FCCC Article 4.2(f), VENEZUELA reported that consultations with Turkey are ongoing.
COLOMBIA said that as long as CDM projects demonstrate additionality and lead to real and measurable long-term reductions, there should be flexibility in financing the projects.
On making models, datasets, scenarios and visualization tools available, the NETHERLANDS questioned labeling datasets or models as 93IPCC approved, 94 but acknowledged the usefulness of making available supporting materials for graphs, referring to similar practices in science journals.
MOROCCO said the imbalance of projects under the AIJ pilot phase was inequitable and ZIMBABWE recommended its extension.
The EU stressed the importance of environmental integrity, and suggested using the latest IPCC findings on GWP.
The EU presented an option representing a mix of shared and acquiring party liability.
CANADA and others supported Australia’s proposal to identify principles.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with SOUTH AFRICA, said all countries should be encouraged to develop adaptation plans, and proposed biennial reports on MOI for adaptation provided to developing countries.
The Secretariat estimates that US$ 3.2 million will be required for Protocol activities, should it enter into force during the 2004-2005 biennium.
The EU indicated that the budget should be more predictable and sustainable for future periods, and expressed surprise over the distinction between the Protocol and UNFCCC activities in the budget.
TUVALU stressed that the Protocol must survive after Copenhagen as a standalone agreement.
INDIA said the Convention only defines the financial mechanism but does not establish it.
ZIMBABWE outlined her country’s difficulties with basic economic development and the financial impact of El Ni f1o.
Canada, with Australia and the EU, advocated transparency while recognizing financial realities.
AOSIS noted that small island developing States are among those hardest hit by climate change.
South Africa, with the EU, noted a country-driven approach and programmatic financing.
The EU and others, opposed by Japan, suggested deleting text on converting CDM projects into joint implementation (JI) projects.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested regional TEMs.
JAPAN said that public financing should support development of national strategies and action plans, as well as demonstration projects.
He emphasized the fourth review of the financial mechanism and said that the LDC Fund (LDCF) and the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) remain underdeveloped and require improvements.
Underscoring flexibility, AUSTRALIA clarified that their proposal for a facilitative platform is not a fund and does not address the scale of financial resources, but is still compatible with other proposals.
PAKISTAN expressed disagreement with the notion of most vulnerable countries as defined in many documents, saying it is inconsistent with the UNFCCC, and urged a science-based category.
The EU emphasized the upcoming comprehensive capacity \t\tbuilding overview.
On a request to the Secretariat to facilitate interventions by observer organizations without advance submission of written copies, SAUDI ARABIA objected, noting this should be possible only in exceptional circumstances.
FRANCE suggested that Parties submit complaints about GEF performance for review at future COP sessions.
Japan and the EU \t\tsupported a role for the GEF, while China suggested that this role be \t\ttemporary.
GHANA highlighted the need for cooperative action.
Bianca Sylvester, World Bank, introduced the Bank e2 80 99s Pilot Auction Facility for Methane and Climate Change Mitigation, initially targeting 1,200 methane reduction projects, with a US$100 million capitalization target.
The EU emphasized the need to make progress on all elements of the Durban package and cautioned against reopening decisions from Cancun and Durban.
 In the afternoon, Co-Facilitator Kelley Kizzier (EU) asked parties to focus on intersessional work needed before SBSTA 47.
He underscored that the US must respect its climate commitments, adding that France would lead a dialogue with the new US President with respect and determination.
Welcoming the fruitful discussion on what is needed, JAPAN called for addressing “the how.” The US noted the text on MRV and capacity building lacks operationality.
BRAZIL stressed migration from rural areas to cities, noting: city dwellers have lower emissions per capita; municipal and city initiatives are more flexible than national initiatives; and that cities’ innovative solutions will only be implemented nationally at a later stage.
Regarding a paragraph on   (SRM), the US suggested stating that it e2 80 9ccould e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cwould e2 80 9d entail uncertainties and side effects, risks and shortcomings, as some methods might not have such side effects or risks and SRM is broadly defined in the glossary.
CHINA said that initial communications from non-Annex I Parties were contingent upon Annex I Parties fulfilling their financial and technological commitments under the FCCC.
MAURITIUS said that carbon \t\ttrading needs to be reassessed as it is allowing emissions to continue \t\twith profits accruing to some developing countries.
NORWAY reiterated her country’s goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2030.
Angola, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to ensure access to finance.
The GEF said that work on operationalizing the LDC Fund was underway.
CANADA expressed interest in contributing resources to the basic course on review of inventories.
The AFRICAN GROUP stressed that a shared vision also involves sustainable development and adaptation, and called for upscaled funding and attention to climate change-related migration.
The Gambia, Ghana, the US, Palau and Malawi welcomed the earmarking of 50% of GCF finance for adaptation, and supported continued balance in the agreement.
BRAZIL recalled that the proposal contains a clean development fund that has been replaced by the Kyoto Protocol\'s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stated that the WIM review should ensure that the mechanism operates as effectively as possible.
TUVALU, BRAZIL and MICRONESIA supported preserving the architecture of the Kyoto Protocol.
Regarding additional activities, the US said there should be transparency in reporting and verifiability.
 \t\tResponding to questions, Stern \t\tunderscored, inter alia: that there is no unique path for any \t\tsingle stabilization goal; the importance of local conditions for \t\tadaptation; that SIDS are not addressed adequately in aggregate climate \t\tmodels; the need to involve finance ministries; the importance of \t\tinvestment flows created by carbon markets to build the necessary trust \t\tto bring international agreement forward; exaggeration of mitigation \t\tcosts and their impact on competitiveness; international sectoral \t\tagreements for energy-intensive industries; and that developing \t\tcountries suffer more due to their geographic position, have less \t\tdiversified economies, and less resources to cope.
INDIA noted the need for financing research and development, collaborating on technology research between developed and developing countries, and removing barriers to technology transfer.
AOSIS also highlighted the need to consider compensation for loss and damage.
The US objected to inclusion of water resources as a stand-alone agenda item.
 The Conference also saw a significant shift in position by the US, which for the first time supported a legally binding agreement to fulfill the Berlin Mandate.
CHINA noted that the SCCF should prioritize adaptation, technology transfer, capacity building and target programmes identified in national strategies for sustainable development.
On the report of the GEF, INDIA, opposed by the EU, CANADA and SWITZERLAND, requested the deletion of text emphasizing the "successful and substantial third GEF replenishment."
JAPAN cautioned against creating new obligations for parties, stressing that providing incentives to the private sector would be more effective.
Chair Benrageb proposed to have one contact group \t\tco-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Kok Seng Yap (Malaysia), \t\twith separate draft conclusions for each item.
Brazil, for G-77/CHINA, said many constraints exist to receiving finance from the GEF, noting that although improvements have been achieved, the GEF has not been “very responsive” to concerns of developing countries.
According to the incoming COP 21/CMP 11 Presidency’s press release, the meeting found: common determination to reach a universal agreement; large consensus on periodic review of national contributions and regular presentation of new contributions; a consensus on “no backtracking”; increased support for a single system, with flexibility depending on capability, with regard to fairness; positive signals for new financial announcements during COP 21 to achieve the US$100 billion goal; and strong support for continuation of the Lima Paris Action Agenda launched by the COP 20/CMP 10 Presidency in 2014.
The UK asked whether such a model for insurance collection could work at the regional level, and Cooper responded that a regional approach could work where small-scale models would not.
EGYPT, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the importance of the workshop’s scope and identified the possible need for another workshop on the means of implementation.
SWITZERLAND emphasized prioritizing support for the most vulnerable and the importance of matching adaptation needs with support, given the diverse sources of funding and needs.
ECUADOR proposed splitting the text into several different COP decisions addressing each of the BAP pillars.
INDIA called for a balanced treatment of the building blocks and stressed that the global long-term goal must be linked to an equitable burden-sharing paradigm and challenges that developing countries face in terms of poverty eradication.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said agreement on a second commitment period in Durban is “absolutely essential.” He expressed concern over slow progress and lack of commitment to a second commitment period by several Protocol parties.
ECUADOR highlighted linkages with water issues.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), called for COP 23 to work on developing implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement, clarifying the Talanoa Dialogue design, and advancing the Global Climate Action Agenda.
The US, in a shift from past positions, supported the development of a legally binding agreement to lower emissions.
The US expressed concern over dividing the consideration of adaptation and mitigation into solutions and opportunities to contribute to sustainable development, and into long-term planning.
In the subsequent discussion, COSTA RICA highlighted difficulties for technology projects in small countries and CHINA highlighted barriers in developed countries.
The US and AUSTRALIA underlined that there were four possible options.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, questioned the inclusion on the agenda of the biannual budget for 2018-2019, given SBI 46 agreed to a draft decision.
South Africa, for BASIC, urged the Talanoa narratives presented at COP 24 to reflect, in a balanced manner, experiences on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
On other possible institutional matters, BRAZIL raised: common timeframes for NDCs, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS; recognition of developing countries’ adaptation efforts; initial guidance to the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism; and training, public awareness and participation.
JAPAN, CANADA, POLAND and HUNGARY said the issue was linked to the outcome on the composition of the committee, and the issue was referred to ministers.
Guatemala, for the Association of Independent Latin American Countries (AILAC), stated that being party to the Paris Agreement implies a responsibility to work for its success, ambition and progression.
The EU noted problems with such reporting, including lack of relevant developing country data.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES called for considering views on how national circumstances could be more systematically included in assessing equity.
The Governors’ Global Climate Summit took place from 18-19 November 2008, in Los Angeles, US.
The US, Norway and Canada stressed that the IPCC historically operates differently than the UNFCCC negotiations and should remain a collegial body focused on overcoming problems and finding solutions.
The EU, POLAND, SWITZERLAND and the G-77/CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, urged that the ToR be considered prior to COP-6.
AUSTRALIA underscored the value of observer engagement in improving transparency and for developing an enhanced framework for measuring, reporting and verification (MRV) and provision of support to developing countries.
The EU, Denmark, Austria, Finland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Liechtenstein, the UK, Australia, Ireland, Switzerland, Italy, Portugal, Greece, Sweden and Monaco urged the Conference to produce a mandate for a protocol to be concluded by 1997.
The US proposed addressing black carbon in a sub-chapter.
TUVALU said it would also be useful for the SBI Chair to report to the COP/MOP in order to guide the work on the proposed amendments concerning immunities and privileges.
The US noted the possibility of extending some functions into the next assessment period.
CHINA emphasized that only “very limited” amendments to the Protocol were needed, while JAPAN stressed that an effective outcome requires combining results from the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and proposed adopting a new protocol.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, endorsed the preparation of guidelines for consideration by SBSTA.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for significant public funding and asked developed countries how much money they would be “putting on the table” in Copenhagen.
The EU responded that the Fund will continue based on agreed commitments.
On MOI, AOSIS called for financial commitments by developed countries and provisions to ensure scaled-up, predictable, new and additional finance.
Norway, Kuwait, Canada, the EU, Saudi Arabia, Japan and others, opposed by Brazil, Micronesia and others, supported inclusion of CCS projects under the CDM.
SAUDI ARABIA, with SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES and BRAZIL, suggested adding a sub-heading on objectives.
SWITZERLAND suggested NDCs reflect parties’ highest level of ambition “in light of recommendations by science.” The US proposed including decarbonization of the global economy over the course of this century.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, hoped the Talanoas would refocus parties towards the 1.5 c2 b0C vision.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, stressed that negotiations under the ADP must ensure full and effective implementation of the Convention.
The EU and the Umbrella Group supported an eight-year second commitment period, with the EU highlighting its internal legislation already in force for 2013-2020.
 Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) co-facilitated this session.
MARSHALL ISLANDS, in a recorded video, informed that her country had submitted a strengthened NDC in November 2018, and called for every government to contribute to increasing climate action by 2020, including through greatly improved finance flows.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION presented a proposal on Article 3 (QELROs).
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the COP/MOP 92s central role and said it would not only accept the report of the compliance body, but could also modify that body 92s decisions.
Responding to a request by AUSTRALIA, the Secretariat later circulated the report as a conference document (FCCC/SBSTA/ 1996/CRP.5).
INDONESIA and the EU called for clarification on the division of work on REDD under the SBSTA and AWG-LCA.
CHINA and IRAN proposed that the TAR contain a section on the impact of activities by Annex I on non-Annex I countries.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, underlined the importance of mitigation as part of a balanced and ambitious outcome in Durban and said appropriate action on mitigation requires a decision, in Durban, on the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
On paragraphs 1-6 (elements), CANADA suggested that the ADP address e2 80 9cvarious topics e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9call elements, e2 80 9d and that e2 80 9cachieving political parity e2 80 9d between mitigation and adaptation be replaced with e2 80 9celevating their critical importance.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and CHINA, stressed the importance of this topic for all countries, and expressed deep concern over the continuing lack of progress and the fact that most technology transfer is being undertaken within the AIJ framework.
The G-77/CHINA made a point of order and requested the chair to make a ruling according to China’s proposal.
Observing a “Latin American style of respectful multilateral diplomacy,” Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), lauded COP 20 and noted, besides Peru as its host, Bolivia’s presidency of the G-77/China, and Venezuela’s hosting the Social Pre-COP.
CHINA opposed taking a single decision on all mechanisms as this was not supported by the Protocol.
On  , Australia called for greater cooperation with relevant organizations such as the World Intellectual Property Organization and, with the US, noted that IPRs incentivize technology development.
NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND opposed legally-binding numerical financial commitments.
She cautioned, with Algeria, for the Arab Group, against precluding the legal form of the new agreement.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said all elements of a legally-binding agreement guaranteeing the viability of SIDS and other vulnerable developing countries are embedded in the existing text, but that political will is required to realize an agreement.
AUSTRALIA, the US, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the urgency of addressing adjustment methodologies, in particular in relation to the base-year inventory.
The G-77/CHINA expressed reservations with language stating that the financial needs of developing countries vary according to their national circumstances, their economic and technical capacity and the implementation of measures taken.
Upon BRAZIL e2 80 99s request, he provided further information on the National Forest Programme 2015, based on, inter alia, sustainable forest management and a holistic approach capturing the diverse benefits of forests to society.
COLOMBIA proposed extending the levy on the CDM for adaptation to the other mechanisms.
BELIZE called for immediate adaptation measures.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed protectionist trade measures planned by developed countries and urged focusing on the Convention’s implementation and adaptation.
The US said the outcomes should reflect the rapid evolution of the world economy since 1992.
 MALAYSIA said it is difficult to make full use of the data available.
NORWAY suggested linking SBSTA 92s work on policies and measures with SBI 92s on national communications.
The G-77/CHINA said the paragraph only refers to developing country responsibilities and not how the needs assessment will contribute to fulfilling commitments on technology transfer.
Stressing that a long-term global goal is crucial, the EU acknowledged progress has been made on agreement in the MEF to limit warming to not more than 2°C, as well as on the concept of peaking emissions and moving toward low-carbon economies.
In the morning, ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) proposed the revised non-paper as the starting point for negotiations on the Paris package, in spin-off groups on: mitigation; adaptation, and loss and damage; finance; technology development and transfer, and capacity building; compliance; transparency; and workstream 2.
BRAZIL, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, SWAZILAND, SUDAN and others emphasized that retaining the item in abeyance would constitute the most efficient use of time.
The EU reiterated preference for a legally-binding outcome in the form of a protocol, identifying the need for provisions on entry into force and ratification, as well as on regional economic organizations and compliance.
The LMDCs, favored e2 80 9cin conjunction with each session of the ADP in 2015. e2 80 9d BRAZIL said there may not be enough time to deliver e2 80 9cincreased e2 80 9d results on pre-2020 ambition.
The EU and Switzerland supported describing the purpose of MOI.
 BRAZIL said that the establishment of numerical objectives is a prerequisite to the consideration of policies and measures.
AUSTRALIA welcomed mitigation commitments from new countries and supported discussing the item.
On a paragraph addressing the review of the guidelines in decision 15/CMP.1, NEW ZEALAND and the EU expressed concern about duplication of work with the existing review process.
INDIA said biennial update reports should be: less onerous than biennial reports for developed countries; updates of the latest national communications; and contingent on financing from Annex I parties.
CHINA said the GEF should accelerate project approval.
CHINA cautioned against splitting the group’s mandate into political and technical issues, underlining that the mandate is to conclude on Annex I parties’ further emission reductions.
 The NETHERLANDS stressed the importance of exchanging experiences and supported the EU-proposed informal workshop.
Xianfu Lu, UNFCCC Secretariat, explained that the NWP is a five-year programme to assist all parties, particularly least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing states (SIDS), to improve their understanding and assessment of impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change, and make informed decisions on practical adaptation actions and measures to respond to climate change.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported revising the non-Annex I reporting guidelines and explained that ICA should be designed to facilitate mitigation action.
Noting that developed countries have overused their share of atmospheric space by 280%, BOLIVIA called for recognition of the climate debt and compensation for economic losses caused by response measures.
To maximize effectiveness, Mexico, for EIG, called for taking advantage of synergies with other UN conventions to help to implement the Paris Agreement.
The UK noted the challenge of providing information and expertise on climate change adaptation to people without internet access or telephones.
On adaptation, the G-77/CHINA, noted areas of convergence and highlighted, inter alia, the relationship between collective and individual efforts.
AUSTRALIA and the EU supported extending flexibility to the LDCs and SIDS.
CANADA highlighted non-environmental benefits and opposed the inclusion of confidential details in the tables.
  ARGENTINA noted different perceptions on whether the risk to individuals serving on Protocol bodies is a significant issue.
On Sources of Information, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, distinguished between mandatory and non-mandatory sources.
BELARUS, the EU and UKRAINE favored simplifying amendment procedures.
The Alliance of \t\tSmall Island States (AOSIS) supported using the more detailed method of \t\tland identification, whereas the EU and most other Parties supported \t\tadministrative units for land identification.
Brazil, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA AND CHINA (BASIC), expressed concern about developed countries unilaterally creating new criteria for funding under the GCF, stressing that this practice has no legal basis.
The European Union (EU) noted its plan to substantially increase its contribution in the coming years, including with a EUR 1.7 million grant by the end of 2017 and a EUR 4 million grant in the next three years, all in addition to individual EU members’ contributions.
SWITZERLAND expressed concern that the WMO’s summary report does not adequately address economic and human aspects of climate change.
CANADA added that this would enhance donor confidence.
 NORWAY and ICELAND withdrew their proposals, as they were contained in other proposals.
Bolivia, for ALBA, called for developed countries to meet their historical responsibility.
INDIA said transparency, comparability and consistency are requirements of science and of all Parties, but are not totally apparent even in Annex I Parties\' communications.
While declarations for the US to “lead or get out of the way” rung somewhat na c3 afve in 2007, when the US signed on to negotiations for a post-Kyoto agreement, as many recognized the necessity of the involvement of the country that was then the world’s largest emitter.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs: called for a standing item for loss and damage; lamented insufficiency of resources in the LDC Fund; and called for ensuring the sustainability of the Adaptation Fund’s operations.
Belize, for AOSIS, suggested devoting three-quarters of the time to discussing technology transfer and the rest to capacity building so as not to confuse the issues.
Noting that climate change may affect the achievement of \t\tthe Millennium Development Goals, the EU underlined the need for a \t\tdecision to assist vulnerable countries to address adverse effects.
CANADA opposed the suggestion that the COP/MOP be entitled to ask the compliance body to re-examine a matter.
Referring to SBI agenda items 5 (NDC registry) and 6 (adaptation communications registry), Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested they be considered back-to-back and be led by the same co-facilitators, adding “we are working towards one NDC registry, rather than two.”
She supported “quick, substantial and high-impact financing to assist the most vulnerable developing countries,” particularly LDCs and vulnerable SIDS.
Regarding the preparation of national greenhouse gas inventories, the US, opposed by NORWAY, urged that a reference to Protocol Articles 5 (methodological issues), 7 (communication of information) and 8 (review of information) should be included.
The UK expressed concern with making the executive committee too large.
On forest management accounting, TUVALU presented an option on net-net accounting relative to an average over the previous commitment period or periods.
94 The UK said no Synthesis Report by COP-13 would represent a 93retrograde step 94 and make the IPCC 93irrelevant, 94 in the views of some.
The EU objected, but withdrew its objection in lieu of deferring the entire conclusion to SBSTA-5.
INDIA raised questions on how the UNFCCC might help countries meet the costs of acquiring technology, such as intellectual property rights and licensing fees, and the cost of capital.
The EU, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and IRAN noted the MCP\'s purpose is advisory only.
IRAN requested that the timetables for the zero-order drafts of the WGs should be adjusted to accelerate the completion of each report.
The EU described ongoing efforts to expedite the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol amendment, stressing that it has been implementing its commitments under the second commitment period since 1 January 2013.
Barbados supported further implementation of decision 1/CP.10 by: considering the implementation of adaptation activities within the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of SIDS; promoting the review and strengthening of LDCs’ NAPAs; and increased financial support for national institutional arrangements on adaptation.
INDIA called on developed countries who have not signed the Protocol to take on comparable commitments and stressed the per capita emissions paradigm.
The request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM) regarding their status under the UNFCCC was considered by SBI on Tuesday, 2 December.
The EU, supported by Japan, proposed a pilot phase approach.
JAPAN agreed to discuss the proposal bilaterally to reach some basic agreement and introduced another proposal on review of the compilation and accounting report to assess Article 3.1 (assigned amount) compliance.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted progress on adaptation and integration of capacity-building priorities across the Convention.
The EU noted that the text attempts to bridge different visions, but acknowledged the need to know how all discussions on this issue in Paris will come together.
Regarding national communications, CANADA and others supported their use.
VENEZUELA called for “universalization” of the Protocol, stating that only one country with historical responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions has not ratified it.
The EU highlighted: its immediate implementation of second commitment period commitments regardless of other parties’ ratification timing; the need for broad participation in the flexibility mechanisms based on environmental integrity; and the need to resolve the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs.
On differentiation, Sudan, for the African Group, with Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and Bolivia, for the G-77/China, opposed text suggesting “all” parties mobilize climate finance through a diversity of actions.
NORWAY noted its support for the proposal by the Chair and said that methodologies were available to work on the basis of six GHGs.
EGYPT, with the G-77/CHINA, urged funding of stand-alone projects.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE opposed starting work without adopting the agenda.
NEW ZEALAND urged building on ongoing work such as under the NWP.
Nauru, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), questioned whether adaptation can provide a sufficient solution to the impacts of climate change in small island developing states and whether the Green Climate Fund can afford to pay for such measures, and called for prioritizing mitigation under the ADP.
NORWAY encouraged: continuing positive dynamics; sharing experiences; understanding conditionalities better; bringing more parties on board; considering the mitigation potential of REDD+, hydrofluorocarbons and black carbon; and removing harmful fossil fuel subsidies.
SOUTH AFRICA said climate change measures should not eradicate jobs and livelihoods, noting as an example the negative consequences of developed country consumers’ attention to “food miles.” The LDCs highlighted high costs of mitigation technologies.
AUSTRALIA underscored that the second option integrates a strong foundation with the ongoing SBSTA process.
On the second item, the EU said they would propose draft text requesting the Secretariat to make the necessary updates.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted a proposal on the commitment period reserve, BRAZIL proposed language on the final review report of the ERTs, and JAPAN said it had a new proposal on a new procedure for the final compilation report.
IRAN emphasized the importance of future modeling activities.
The US supported applying the amendment throughout the document, but argued that this change, when referring to the workshop, would limit participation and subject matter.
The EU said COP-10 should provide input to the \t\tMillennium +5 Summit.
On  , AILAC called for a session during COP 22 to take stock of progress.
Grenada for AOSIS also expressed satisfaction with the outcome.
Deploring the lack of agreement on a COP decision on the matter, SWITZERLAND suggested parties were nevertheless in an “excellent position” to fulfill the mandate of the review.
The G-77/CHINA agreed with the need to deepen understanding, but also called for a system to respond to the information flow.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, outlined tasks for Lima, including: progressing on the elements for a negotiating text; setting a clear direction for further work in 2015; and providing guidance that will help countries prepare clear and transparent contributions to post-2020 action.
The EU proposed clustering paragraphs according to the structural suggestion at the end of the finance section of the Geneva text.
CANADA said that he does not support limitations on the use of banking or international market-based mechanisms, although his country does not intend to use these mechanisms.
EGYPT suggested assessing the effectiveness and adequacy of GCF technology funding.
The EU tabled additional paragraphs on conclusions, including a proposed terms of reference for a possible workshop on P&amp;Ms.
SUDAN and BOLIVIA stressed the need for transparency and sought clarification on the establishment of a smaller group.
94 With the US and \t\t\tSaudi Arabia contesting Co-Chair Parry b4s proposed information from \t\t\tthe Stern Review, the section was bracketed with opposition from \t\t\tAustria, the EC and others.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE objected to the characterization of technical consultations under Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8 as e2 80 9cpractically ready, e2 80 9d stressing that the interests of economies in transition have not been addressed.
SOUTH AFRICA lamented the fragmented nature of \t\t\tadaptation discussions under the UNFCCC, advocated a broader “360 b0 \t\t\tapproach” to adaptation, and suggested a new Adaptation Committee of \t\t\tExperts.
KUWAIT noted the potential of carbon capture and \t\tstorage and highlighted the impact of response measures, calling for \t\tassistance for economic diversification.
Underscoring her country’s mitigation initiatives in the renewable energy sector, URUGUAY said operationalizing support is essential for NAMA preparation and NAMA registry development.
He also explained that, since the issuance of this document, Honduras, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), Iran, for the Asia-Pacific States, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, had proposed new agenda items, each on the special needs and special circumstances of developing countries in their respective groups or regions.
The CENTRAL AMERICAN STATES stressed the importance of sinks and supported the G- 77/China proposal to prioritize the CDM and operationalize it by 1 January 2000.
The workshop \t\twas co-chaired by Philip Gwage (Uganda) and David Warrilow (UK), and \t\tconsisted of a key note presentation by Ian Burton, University of \t\tToronto, and presentations by fifteen country representatives.
Delegates adopted the draft Chair 92s conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2000/CRP.9), noting the establishment of this contact group to consider this text, following a small amendment proposed by the US to delete a request for additional submissions "by 22 September."
COLOMBIA, speaking for Chile, Costa Rica and Peru, with BOLIVIA, URUGUAY and TOGO, called for the provision of funds to facilitate the operationalization of the GCF.
Following a query from Japan on the funding for CGE meetings, the US expressed surprise to hear that funding came from the core budget, and said she could not agree to the text without further consultations.
The G-77/CHINA and others said the draft text was very weak and proposed basing discussion on its proposal for a draft decision, submitted at SB-13 Part I.
BRAZIL proposed an amendment that will enable parties to raise the level of ambition of their commitments, at any time they wish to do so, with immediate effect under international law.
SAUDI ARABIA underscored that Monday’s event should be characterized as something more than an exchange of information among parties.
CANADA, the US and JAPAN, opposed by GHANA, suggested using the EGTT’s performance indicators for the review.
CANADA said governments must provide an enabling environment for the private sector to facilitate technology transfer.
The US, with JAPAN, said natural effects cannot be factored out in a satisfactory manner, and said the effect of carbon fertilization is well under 10%.
The EU said information is insufficient and unclear, particularly on units in subnational market mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, stressed that Parties had a right to use the mechanisms until a breach had been identified through the review process.
JAMAICA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the LDCs emphasized the need for durability in the agreement on matters relating to vulnerable countries.
With SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES, the G-77/CHINA proposed adding “learning by doing” as a principle, and COLOMBIA noted that principles should be of a general nature.
The PHILIPPINES said the elements in the synthesis list are already in the Convention and that renegotiating the Convention would open a “Pandora’s box.”
With NORWAY, he supported including land areas.
Regarding project eligibility, the EU identified convergence on a two-step approach in JI; validation before implementation and certification of emissions reductions, and in elements relating to assessment of additionality.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and BURKINA FASO, said this item could lead to renewed confrontation.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ZIMBABWE, suggested developing a programme of action building on the workshops held in March.
BOLIVIA said that finance outside the UNFCCC cannot be considered as fulfillment of developed country commitments.
On reporting experiences, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, NORWAY, CANADA and SWITZERLAND supported using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines during the second commitment period, but said further methodological work may be necessary.
 On the coverage for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the EU, the US, EGYPT, IRAN and MAURITIUS favored covering all GHGs.
The US, supported by NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and NORWAY, proposed starting with discussions on actions.
Sweden, for the European Union (EU), called for an inclusive Copenhagen agreement, encompassing non-Annex I parties, covering all building blocks based on the principles of the Convention.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, and RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed.
France, on behalf of the EU, noted that the COP has not yet received the UN Secretary-General\'s draft decision and that once it was received it would have to be incorporated.
The G-77 and China, AOSIS, the Philippines, the Russian Federation and India distributed separate amendments.
The proposed Convention Fund would be a window under the GEF, with separate guidance and special consideration given to the needs of the LDCs and SIDS.
GUYANA, with CAMBODIA, the AFRICAN GROUP and TANZANIA, underscored the need for sustained and predictable funding.
ETHIOPIA said economic development is crucial for adapting to climate change, and urged increased financial support.
SWEDEN said success in Marrakesh would constitute a powerful pledge for the US to reconsider its decision to be part of a global coalition to combat climate change.
Artur Runge-Metzger, European Commission, discussed lessons learned from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and noted the proposal to auction emission allowances in the post-2012 period and to require member states to use 20% of revenues for mitigation and adaptation.
In the afternoon, the CZECH REPUBLIC stated that decreasing coal use, and increasing nuclear and renewable energy shares are driving the country’s energy sector emissions downwards.
Calling for a strong outcome in Copenhagen, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed that it is not acceptable to begin a new roadmap in Copenhagen and said that the non-papers from the Bangkok session provide a good basis for substantive progress in Barcelona.
Chair Kante initially sought to confine discussion to consultations to be led by Mohamed Mahmoud Ould El Ghaouth (Mauritania) but at the insistence of CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, allowed Parties to make general statements in Plenary.
VENEZUELA posed questions concerning the relationship between the ministerial consultations on the “most delicate issues” and the AWG-LCA’s text, asking who will produce text on these issues and stressing that, in her view, the COP President would need a mandate from the parties to develop text.
CHINA said this did not solve the problem of transparency and noted that “arrangements” and “proposals” are not the same thing.
The UK and KENYA discussed the five year timeframe for \t\trevision of observer organizations.
On paragraph 128 on the sources of finance, based on consolidation proposals by the G-77/CHINA, the EIG and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, parties agreed to, respectively: delete option 3 in favor of option 6, both on criteria for sources of finance; merge option 2 into option 1 sub-option b to avoid duplication; and delete option 5 except a sentence on the replenishment of the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, which is to be moved to the section on institutions.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, proposed break-out groups to address specific issues and urged focusing on streamlining the text.
On the proposed item on a work programme on agriculture, NEW ZEALAND, with CANADA, said the work programme would allow the SBSTA to explore technical and methodological issues relating to adaptation and mitigation in the agriculture sector.
BRAZIL said INDCs: should not be interpreted as e2 80 9can expectation of legal terms e2 80 9d; opposed self-differentiation; and, with Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested that reference to equity be made.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, and TUVALU, called for mandatory inclusion of agreed activities to eliminate the “pick and choose nature” of current accounting and promoted a net-net accounting approach.
SENEGAL called for a science-based approach, and the LDCs identified the need to determine the percent of emission reductions that can be achieved through offsetting.
CANADA supported a "one-time jump" in the budget.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stated that it looked forward to considering issues identified by the EGTT under the AWG-LCA and underscored action-based implementation of the NWP.
Grenada, for AOSIS, urged SBSTA to prepare a draft COP decision on REDD and REDD-plus.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted national communications as a channel to raise concerns.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NEW ZEALAND, proposed the wording "key" categories to limit the consideration of numbers of sources and sinks.
China opposed a US proposal that CRF tables contain key source categories, proposing that uncertainties cover all categories.
Highlighting a decline in GHG emissions over 1990-2010, AZERBAIJAN identified renewable energy and energy efficiency as key mitigation measures.
SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of the ARABIAN COUNTRIES GROUP, said non-compliance with Article 3.14 should also lead to suspension of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms and a financial penalty paid to a compensation fund.
AUSTRALIA called for progress on biennial update reporting guidelines to create a framework to enable developing countries to get started on the process and suggested, with the EU, January 2014 as a date for the submission of the first biennial update report.
The US considered the rapid development of an AIJ programme to be of major importance toward the Convention\'s continuing progress.
The US urged delegates to consider criteria other than equitable geographic distribution.
Australia, New Zealand and the EU, opposed by the Gambia, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Thailand and other developing countries, called for coordination between the AWGs on levels of ambition and comparability of efforts.
JAPAN noted that a decision extending the share of proceeds would require a Protocol amendment.
The G-77/CHINA, EU and JAPAN distributed draft proposals and delegates discussed, inter alia, the nature of co-financing for GEF projects.
BANGLADESH highlighted the establishment of a US$ 100 million Climate Change Trust Fund in his country.
 CANADA supported the US proposal for a special session on quantitative reductions, and differentiated or regional targets among Annex I Parties.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that sub-Saharan Africa only accounts for 1.7% of CDM projects.
The EU further commented on discussions with the GEF concerning the provision of adequate funding based on the Cancun mandate.
The G-77/China called for the will to implement "long overdue" actions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 at COP-6 and, supported by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jamaica, but opposed by the EU and the US, reiterated the call for two separate decisions.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, highlighted concerns relating to predictability and adequacy of funding.
 BENIN highlighted the need to mainstream adaptation and learn from the implementation of NAPAs.
CHINA, supported by INDIA and IRAN, observed two tendencies: developed countries are only interested in transfer of technical information, while developing countries deem technology transfer on non-commercial and preferential terms most important; and some countries emphasize market mechanisms.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted progress, but said significant differences remain and expressed disappointment with some parties’ insistence on working outside existing mandates.
 On Section G, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that the agreement be arranged in clusters on, inter alia: scale of resources; assessment and review; and sources of finance.
The G-77/CHINA said that the introduction of new bracketed text was unacceptable at this point.
On the share of proceeds, the US proposed that the group on guidelines address this.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, highlighted research and systematic observation and enhancement of the NWP to support adaptation implementation in LDCs.
JAPAN said conference services should be funded from the UN regular budget.
The EU and \t\t\tNORWAY opposed the linkage with Article 2.3, while SAUDI ARABIA \t\t\tsupported it.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION expressed interest in a future discussion on the matter, noting that his country also exports cleaner energy.
UGANDA noted the need to define a scope for the sectoral approach, which specifies the sectors to be considered.
The EU called for deepening the discussion in Marrakech first.
URUGUAY thanked the GEF for its assistance.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to work on the basis of the ADP text, and called for a balanced and equal treatment of all elements of the Durban mandate, and an outcome under the Convention in accordance with its principles and provisions.
CHINA stated that funding should come from developed countries as a percentage of their GDP, and that financial initiatives outside the UNFCCC should not be counted as fulfillment of developed country commitments.
Several, including the EU, SAUDI ARABIA and NEW ZEALAND, supported ensuring the document is not renegotiated in the APA contact group.
SOUTH AFRICA identified two possible questions, namely: the rate at which emissions should decline beyond 2020 to achieve the scale of emission reductions required by science; and the criteria to be used to allocate the Annex I aggregate target.
CANADA and GERMANY noted the importance of electronic dissemination of information and encouraged further expansion.
Saint Kitts, for AOSIS, and JAPAN supported forwarding the bracketed text to Durban as it is, recalling the significant effort already invested.
Parties then discussed the LDC Fund (LDCF) and also considered the type of guidance that the GEF would require.
AOSIS expressed concern that some rules could allow for an increase in industrial emissions.
CHINA called for mechanisms to enhance support for adaptation, especially in the areas of early warning and disaster management.
Responding to JAMAICA regarding the appropriate level at which to approach adaptation, Kumar said regional cooperation is useful, as specific measures that can be modified at a low cost could be identified and replicated elsewhere.
The EU, COSTA RICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, and BRAZIL welcomed the operationalization of the platform, with the EU indicating readiness to consider establishing a facilitative working group and COSTA RICA asking for balanced representation at the first multi-stakeholder workshop.
Chair \t\tBenrageb reported back to SBSTA on consultations regarding the agenda, \t\tnoting lack of agreement on an item on SIDS.
UGANDA sought clarification of what is meant by "centers of excellence," noting that this could be interpreted differently.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the legal standing of the CRP as opposed to the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper.
The US, NORWAY, CANADA and the EU supported broadening the scope of national adaptation planning processes.
The PHILIPPINES called for Annex I countries not to make their commitments contingent on other countries’ actions.
The Dominican Republic, on behalf of the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), said the Paris Agreement’s message of “life and hope” has been postponed as vulnerable countries receive few financial, technological or capacity building benefits.
BANGLADESH identified the physical, ecological and social dimensions as critical to assessing vulnerability.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that non-Annex I countries are being “pushed” to increase the frequency of their national communications, while Annex I countries are refusing to do likewise.
AUSTRALIA said that provisional application might be problematic due to domestic constraints.
 ICELAND said the EU outline could be a point of departure.
PAKISTAN underlined long-term cooperative action as a more important element than a long-term goal, while JAPAN stressed that a long-term goal is the key element.
The EU worried that if access to CDM credits is made conditional on second commitment period targets, parties will be forced to create their own rules through bilateral deals, while New Zealand emphasized the role of the CDM in promoting sustainable development and technology transfer in non-Annex I countries.
Peru, for AILAC, supported by the African Group, and opposed by India, suggested that the Co-Chairs’ reflection note seek to eliminate duplications and improve the contents of the informal notes.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed individual country assessments need to go in parallel with the collective assessment of progress.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the AWG-LCA’s work should be based on the principles and provisions of the Convention and the BAP, and should not re-classify or differentiate amongst developing countries.
 The US accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions with the understanding that the paragraph 7, which invites entities to make available relevant information, is open to inputs from NGOs and IGOs as appropriate.
 CANADA enquired about the exact intent of the aim to elaborate policies and measures as well as to set quantified limitation reduction objectives.
ARGENTINA underscored emissions from \t\tdeforestation.
On the facilitators’ non-paper on biennial reports, many developing countries highlighted, inter alia, that: criteria for categorizing funding either for mitigation or adaptation should be set by the UNFCCC, rather than based on the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Development Assistance Committee criteria; information in the biennial reports should be based on common accounting rules and performance indicators to improve transparency and comparability; and that there should be no “parallelism” with biennial update reports.
Ecuador, for the LMDCs, supported by INDIA, called for a dedicated discussion on transparency of support in line with the time allocation for transparency of action, and for more time to discuss MOI.
Opening the contact group, ADP Co-Chair Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) invited delegates to focus discussions on: using the draft decision on accelerating the implementation of enhanced pre-2020 climate action as the basis for negotiation; improving the TEMs; engagement of non-state actors; and continuing workstream 2 after 2015.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA, suggested differentiating between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
The US emphasized that her country has learned from in depth in-country review of their national communication, and invited other parties to do the same.
TUVALU emphasized that a review mechanism should apply to mitigation and MOI.
On future action, NEW ZEALAND called for a broad approach across countries.
URUGUAY said that training activities in developing countries needed to be included.
The GAMBIA supported a positive list of non-contentious, credible renewable energy and demand-side technologies.
Following informal consultations on the draft conclusions late Tuesday night, 9 December, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the G-77/ China, Micronesia, US, EU, New Zealand, Australia, Japan and Canada, reversed its earlier support for text on reporting on actions to address the adverse affects of response measures, and proposed adding brackets.
BRAZIL, with COLOMBIA, supported defining limits to the use of market mechanisms.
 MEXICO, supported by COLOMBIA, introduced a proposal to allow a “last resort” vote in cases when every effort to reach consensus has failed on issues that carry broad support.
TANZANIA supported a levy on the flexible mechanisms to \t\tpromote technology transfer.
INDIA stressed that post-2020 finance goals under APA item 8 are critical, and called for progress on items related to Agreement Articles 9.5 (developed countries’ biennal ex ante financial communication) and 9.7 (modalities for the accounting of financial resources).
JAPAN rejected suggestions that his country \t\twished to scrap the Protocol.
Suggesting that "everyone is waiting for someone else to make the first move" in negotiations, he highlighted that the US produces a quarter of the world 92s emissions, and that the per capita US levels of emissions are three times higher than those of France.
CHINA underscored the need to enhance the \t\timplementation of the Convention.
JAPAN, opposed by the UK, said there were "actual" and "potential" methods of estimating emissions and proposed a new paragraph under which the COP would affirm the "actual" method for including HFC, PFC and SF6 emissions in QELROs.
On the post-2012 JI, UKRAINE identified the need for further explanations concerning the proposal to issue credits during the possible gap period.
CHINA, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the review of national communications as important work in which all Parties should be involved.
CHINA noted that the word "inputs" appeared to have many different interpretations.
OPEC countries continued to insist that the time was not ripe for negotiation of a protocol.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, noted new institutional arrangements for strengthened institutions may be required.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized that the Adaption Committee should be the lead body on adaptation under the new protocol.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed discussing aggregate targets.
TUVALU said the discussion of legal matters should be undertaken in a format other than bilateral consultations, in order to ensure that all parties understand one another’s views on the issue.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA described potential adaptation institutions, which include a financial structure that would manage funds but could be housed outside the UNFCCC, a technical component to receive input from disaster risk agencies and administrative support from the UNFCCC Secretariat.
CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA stated that the current process works well, and opposed an additional process or any modifications at this time.
Guatemala, for AILAC, lamented the gap between INDCs’ aggregate effect and the levels of emission reductions needed to stay within the 1.5 c2 b0/2 c2 b0C goal.
While Chile, for AILAC, the US and the EU supported beginning discussions on identifying elements for the agreement or decision text, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, said it is premature.
Lesotho, for LDCs, highlighted that the key guiding principle should be avoiding adverse impacts on the most vulnerable countries and called on developed countries to provide adequate financial support for adaptation actions.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said COP 22 should prioritize: ensuring a comprehensive and rules-based process; crystalizing adaptation action; and elaborating the technology framework.
The UK proposed including a reference from the Geneva Declaration, but the Chair noted that not all Parties had supported the Declaration.
BRAZIL, supported by the G-77/CHINA, said the terminology was rather related to Protocol Article 3.1 (assigned amount) and stated that it will submit a written proposal clarifying the terminology.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the importance of agreeing on the content and substance of the report and of addressing the regional impacts of mitigation measures.
\t\tBangladesh, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC, \t\tAdaptation, and Special Climate Change Funds.
Regarding the \t\tprovisional agenda, the UK, for the EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, \t\tobjected to the inclusion of agenda item 10 on Article 2.3 (response \t\tmeasures) on the grounds that it is addressed elsewhere.
The LDCs, opposed by the US, suggested that bodies created under the Kyoto Protocol, such as the Adaptation Fund and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), could be carried across to the new agreement by a COP decision.
South Africa, on behalf of BASIC, urged raising the level of ambition of current pledges, and said the adoption of amendments to the Protocol is “the cornerstone” for a successful outcome in Doha.
Referring to another non-paper, the EU stressed domestic actions and called for: ceilings on use of mechanisms; guidelines, rules and procedures; a compliance regime as a pre-requisite; and parallel work on the mechanisms.
Pakistan, the EU and Chair Pachauri supported the sentence as presented.
CHINA called for concrete progress, stating that negotiating partners are stalling.
Underscoring that the Kyoto Protocol is the only legal instrument to tackle the increase in developed countries’ emissions, Dominica, for ALBA, expressed concern over diverting the Kyoto Protocol discussions to the ADP.
 The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC said that it, like other developing countries, doesn\'t have much to give.
He also noted, as the EU and Brazil stated, that national communications are not a one-time event.
\t\t\tThe Maldives, for LDCs, expressed concern that technology transfer \t\t\tis being left to market mechanisms and that LDCs lack experts.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that any rules regulating the participation of observers, especially IGOs, should not be arbitrarily applied.
He expressed concern over developed countries’ efforts to make their mitigation action contingent on that of developing countries, and, together with ALBA countries, said that access to the CDM should be conditional on ratification of the second commitment period.
VENEZUELA said forwarding the Co-Chairs\' text would require formulation of a joint subsidiary bodies\' position.
TIMOR LESTE expressed support for an agenda item on loss and damage.
Several parties, including NEW ZEALAND, the US, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, expressed their intention to voluntarily apply the revised guidelines, or consider including some of the guidelines’ elements, in their seventh NCs.
The UK said the SBI is not appropriate forum to raise sovereignty issues, stating that there was no doubt about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands.
INDIA, supported by EGYPT, said that the Protocol process should take precedence and that the reports from the “friends of the chair” group should go through the COP/MOP or COP before being forwarded to Heads of State.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, identified the need for guidance to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) from COP 18 on national adaptation plan formulation in LDCs.
CHINA, supported by the EU and G-77/CHINA, suggested focusing on the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects of adaptation and mitigation.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, highlighted early production of a consolidated text as important to ensure reflection before the closure of the session.
PAKISTAN, with the PHILIPPINES, noted the need to clarify the registry’s functions.
The PHILIPPINES stressed the need for enhanced ambition “on all fronts” and cautioned against conditionalities on the provision of funding.
The US and Japan recommended adoption of guidelines for national systems at COP-6.
The EU expressed disappointment over the lack of progress on agenda item 3 (mitigation section), which she said should have a single note with headings, sub-headings, and a textual narrative.
JAPAN also questioned the EU distinction between a facilitative and an enforcement process and said assistance would always be helpful as a first step.
The UK noted its late contributions for 2007.
CHINA supported an action-based, not advisory, mechanism.
Regarding submissions on modalities, MALAYSIA stressed the need for initial exchange of views.
CUBA said the main barrier to agreement has been lack of consensus on the availability of financial resources, and said developed countries should take appropriate steps to resolve this impediment.
On  , the Russian Federation, the US, France, Italy, and Finland raised concern about a new approach related to “factoring-out emissions that would have occurred otherwise if the land remained unmanaged.” They noted that this is inconsistent with the Guidelines for other land uses and key IPCC concepts, and that introducing this would create serious problems, with the US saying that any consideration of what “would have occurred otherwise” is hypothetical in nature and should not be included in the reporting.
On closing the ambition gap, the EU suggested increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy; and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies and HFCs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for progress on agenda items facilitating the adaptation of SIDS to climate change.
e2 80 9d SOUTH AFRICA favored commitments with a legal character.
Tuvalu, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said that the IPCC TAR should inform discussions on the development of the climate regime.
The US called for an effective outcome that is economically sustainable and consistent with sustainable development.
An informal group facilitated by Kunihiko Shimada (Japan) was established to address matters related to Annex I parties with economies in transition (EIT) and matters related to Annex I parties whose special circumstances are recognized by the COP.
The EIG supported allowing those Annex I parties that will not take on QELROs to participate in the CDM.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to retain capacity building as a distinct section, requested a sub-section delineating actions, and proposed a mechanism, possibly in the form of a funding window, to enable financing.
JAPAN emphasized the potential of sectoral approaches to reduce emissions in both developed and developing countries, and noted that they help promote technology transfer and capacity building in developing countries.
The EU stressed that action by Annex I parties would not be \t\tsufficient to tackle climate change, and Australia proposed that a \t\tfuture framework should include all major emitters.
MALAYSIA asked questions regarding statistical adjustments and comparability of in-depth reviews.
On text for a COP-6 decision, the EU emphasized the need for a "continuous and structured process" to address the issues within its proposed objectives.
The G-77/CHINA proposed evaluating the effectiveness of existing and new policy tools with regard to potential consequences.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said they would like to see the continuation of the flexibility mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND introduced an option permitting purchase at a penalty rate, inter alia, from future commitment periods.
The US said it was necessary to distinguish between capacity building discussions in this and other contact groups.
Changing its earlier support, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, MICRONESIA, US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA, proposed adding bracketed text on reporting on actions to address the adverse affects of response measures.
 On long-term and global aspects of mitigation, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, reminded parties that Decision 1/CP.16 (Cancun Agreements) recognizes the need for a longer time frame for the peaking of GHG emissions in developing countries.
ALGERIA stressed the evolutionary character of adaptation needs.
On a paragraph on preparation of a negotiating text by May 2015, the EU, supported by SWITZERLAND and the MARSHALL ISLANDS, and opposed by the LMDCs and CANADA, supported maintaining a reference to Article 17 of the Convention (protocols).
The G-77/CHINA presented its amendments to the Co-Chairs 92 draft conclusions, stating that the Group 92s overriding interest is that a decision on the SCCF be taken at COP-9.
The EU said the spirit of Paris is alive but there is a lot of work ahead.
  LETTER FROM THE CENTRAL ASIA, CAUCASUS, ALBANIA AND MOLDOVA GROUP OF COUNTRIES (CAC&amp;M GROUP) ON THEIR STATUS UNDER THE CONVENTION:
The EU suggested three criteria for choosing which new greenhouse gases to include, namely: availability of GWPs; availability of methodology from the IPCC; and whether the gases have a significant current or future impact.
The US supported the EC’s request subject to specific language on the Community’s rights within the IPCC.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA questioned the role of the Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Finance and highlighted the importance of the finance board.
The US proposed the paper be viewed within a larger and more comprehensive framework, and address not only pledges but also actions to support them.
The EU suggested, as a way forward, to continue to use a “multi-layered approach,” namely separating issues that can be solved at a technical level from those that need political attention, noting that this had enabled progress so far.
Japan proposed deleting text suggesting that mobilization of finance be “regularly scaled up.” The EU preferred regular “updating” rather than “upscaling.”
While the G-77/China supported this text, the EU, US and Japan preferred asking the GEF simply to “continue” providing financial support.
SAMOA, for AOSIS, opposed by NORWAY, POLAND and CANADA, proposed removing reference to these being "guidelines."
FRANCE asked how climate models could help \t\tauthorities address severe weather occurrences such as heat waves, and \t\tKlein explained that in this case vulnerable sectors are determined by \t\tsocial factors not related to climate.
CANADA said technical and methodological issues must be understood before deciding commitments.
DENMARK called on the GEF to be more responsive to LDCs 92 needs and proposed support equivalent to 0.1% of Gross National Products in additional funds.
She urged the further technical analysis of a market-based mechanism proposed under ICAO and said such a mechanism could only be based on mutual and multilateral consent and, with CHINA, should include CBDR.
 The EU noted that its protocol proposal includes establishment of a multilateral consultative process (MCP) for both review of compliance and dispute settlement under the FCCC.
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the Protocol as a central part of the climate change architecture and emphasized that its institutions must be reaffirmed and strengthened through ambitious emission reduction targets for the second and subsequent commitment periods, consistent with the science.
BELGIUM offered to host a regional workshop on Article 6 in 2003.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, \t\tproposed deleting the agenda item on matters relating to Protocol \t\tArticle 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
 VENEZUELA said that any action undertaken by Annex I Parties to reduce emissions will affect the economies of developing countries, and that any assessments should include these effects.
Ethiopia, for LDCs, said the issue is a controversial one as it is being discussed under both the AWG-KP and the COP/MOP.
The EU provided an overview of their emission reduction pledge, highlighting that mitigation by developed and developing countries forms the cornerstone of 2020 reductions to limit global temperature increase to below 2°C.
On blue carbon: coastal marine systems, PAPUA NEW GUINEA explained that the agenda item would include consideration of wetlands and coastal ecosystems.
The EU added that national registries are critical to the system and inquired about the need to link the national system to the international one.
He also supported the AOSIS protocol.
 The US, supported by New Zealand, thought further discussion was necessary.
TUVALU and NEW ZEALAND noted the need to define the role of developed and developing country parties in the safeguards chapeau.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stressed \t\tthe importance of private sector participation, financing, technology \t\ttransfer and capacity building.
On the NWP, BOLIVIA underscored the need for studies to determine adaptation costs and benefits, and consideration of study results in the context of the desired greenhouse gas (GHG) stabilization levels.
BANGLADESH noted the \t\timpact of a recent cyclone that cost 5000 lives and called for a firm \t\tcommitment to funding adaptation.
The G-77/CHINA favored simpler text referring to "compliance with the Kyoto Protocol."
AUSTRALIA opposed consolidated meetings.
Two groups called for reflecting the special circumstances of LDCs and small island developing states (SIDS), with one calling for a “central group review system” for the LDCs.
The US asked for clarification as to whether the text going forward to Bangkok will include any new proposals.
LIBYA proposed a reference to support for economic diversification in developing countries dependent on fossil fuel production.
He highlighted that the EU looks forward to the establishment of an adaptation framework and a technology mechanism together with their institutional arrangements, and noted the need for a decision regarding the establishment of the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund and for fast-start finance.
CHINA highlighted common but differentiated responsibilities, while NEW ZEALAND and Pettersen called for a global approach to maritime and aviation emissions.
On IPRs, the G-77/CHINA underscored the need for an international cooperation system on public domain technologies, and said patented resources should be made available at an affordable cost to developing countries.
The EU expressed its commitment to conclude work on the SCCF at  COP-9.
The US, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Cuba, China and others opposed reducing expert and government review periods from eight weeks to six weeks in the AR6 cycle.
VIET NAM called for future NDCs to reflect lessons learned.
The US proposed \t\ta question-and-answer session with the GEF during UNFCCC sessions.
CANADA and others urged a broad consideration of international sectoral approaches.
Regarding the draft guidance for reporting on global climate observation systems, the EU, with MONGOLIA, recommended that Annex I Parties prepare a separate report and include in their national communications a summary based on general reporting requirements.
The US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand supported the invitation for views but said the SBI should not prejudge the outcome of the COP 92s deliberations.
He stressed there should be no less than three additional sessions, with support provided for participation by developing countries, particularly the least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing states (SIDS).
The LMDCs and the African Group, opposed by AOSIS, called for identifying opportunities for actions with high adaptation potential, in addition to mitigation, and, opposed by Australia, for text differentiating between mitigation opportunities in developed and developing countries.
The EU noted other agenda items have financial dimensions, including adaptation, and suggested discussing those in the contact group on climate finance.
Mexico, for the EIG, welcomed potential early entry into force and urged parties to maintain the spirit of Paris to produce concrete results.
On differentiation, INDIA called for balance between ambition and differentiation, correctly reflecting the principles of the Convention, and operationalizing differentiation in all the elements.
The EU expressed disappointment that the proposed new agenda sub-items were finally “dropped,” and expressed hope for a successful outcome in Durban on those issues.
AUSTRALIA emphasized using public finance to support those unable to attract private finance, and prioritizing finance to those with least capacity and greater vulnerability.
The EU, US and Australia favored text requiring that second national communications be submitted within three years of the availability of financial resources.
The EU and PERU, opposed by MALAYSIA, said the issue should be considered as part of IPCC 92s Third Assessment Report.
JAPAN supported a legally-binding outcome capturing commitments by all parties within a single framework.
The EU, with JAMAICA and CANADA, identified non-Annex I national communications as a source of information on those countries 92 needs.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over proposals reaching beyond the AWG-KP’s legal mandate based on Protocol Article 3.9 (further commitments) and stressed the importance of agreeing on new Annex I targets by the end of 2009.
She said UNDP is committed to raising US$1.5 million in co-financing for the programme.
The Umbrella Group and the EU expressed disappointment that the matter would not be discussed at SBI 28.
On improving regional distribution, SAUDI ARABIA reiterated their proposal that the provision exempting SIDS from payment of the registration fee and share of proceeds, as well as that establishing a quota for projects hosted in LDCs, SIDS and African countries, should be extended to all developing countries with fewer than ten registered projects.
The \t\tOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said the \t\tOECD advocates the use of market-based instruments to reach \t\tenvironmental goals in an economically efficient manner, emphasizing the \t\tOECD 92s ability to bring together economic, social and environmental \t\tperspectives for finding solutions.
On aligning with the US, Canada emphasized that this does not mean his country would only act when the US acts.
Delegates then invited the Co-Chairs to produce a revised text of the elements of draft guidelines under Article 8, based on the EU six-part structure.
Under text on basis, INDIA, ALGERIA, EGYPT and OMAN expressed concern with deletion of language on the COP/MOP taking further action on issues, including commitment by Annex I parties to minimize adverse social, environmental and economic impacts on other parties of polices and measures, requesting that the reference be reinserted.
The US called for an option in the text to update the Convention e2 80 99s annexes to reflect parties e2 80 99 changing economic and emissions trends.
Urging parties to “make progress now,” the US said failure in Lima will put Paris as well as the future of UNFCCC at risk.
ARGENTINA said that subsidies for agriculture that affect GHGs must be reduced.
SOUTH AFRICA and JAPAN highlighted the need for a scientific assessment of new gases.
 OPEC stated that the IPCC “broke the rules” by implying consensus among scientists in its conclusions.
Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, asked that their group be consulted.
ECUADOR, supported by VENEZUELA, BOLIVIA, and BANGLADESH sought to refine the text on CDM operating after the first commitment period to be contingent on parties taking commitments under a second commitment period.
On the mitigation work plan, the EU identified the process of closing the mitigation gap as an iterative one whereby the gap is assessed, options to increase ambition are identified and the appropriate decisions are taken.
INDIA said reduction in the use of HFCs and PFCs could affect developing countries 92 economies.
CHILE said that emissions from bunker fuels should be regulated taking account of the Convention\'s principles.
SOUTH AFRICA said the question of equity needs to be addressed at a fundamental level.
The EU, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and IRAN noted the MCP\'s purpose is advisory only and that duplication was dealt with in paragraph 6.
In addition, Parties highlighted the need for: a financial mechanism to assist SIDS in achieving adaptive capacity; strong leadership from Annex I countries in taking responsibility for action on climate change; and a meeting to explore the needs of Parties with economies in transition.
The EU noted that national climate legislation is not sufficient to ensure the adequacy of collective ambition.
Citing the possible need for confidentiality of information, the PHILIPPINES opposed a suggestion to make available such information through national communications.
The MALDIVES needs financial support and faces and an expertise shortage.
BRAZIL said it looked forward to negotiations on the second commitment period, taking into account the "Brazilian proposal" based on the share of responsibility for causing climate change.
On paragraph 121 on the provision of funding for capacity building, parties agreed to remove options 2 and 4, as proposed by the G-77/CHINA, leaving options 1 and 3.
On communications, TUVALU said links among communications, ex ante review and final communications should be sequenced.
Brazil, supported by Singapore and the US, said a reference to sustainable development should remain in the paragraph.
SAUDI ARABIA supported two separate decisions on Article 4.8 and 4.9, and Article 3.14, with mandatory language.
The G-77/CHINA asked whether the UN General Assembly 92s (UNGA) recent decision to fund UNFCCC conference services from the UN regular budget would be applied until 2006.
Many party groupings supported the Chair’s proposal, while Australia, for the Umbrella Group, objected to the creation of the contact group on institutional arrangements, stating that the first two contact groups would sufficiently deal with this matter.
The EU asked if it was necessary to select just one option.
CANADA and the US called for its retention.
Australia and the UK said the fund should be an independent fund and should not access the IPCC Trust Fund.
ARGENTINA said the calendar should be considered within the wider context of environmental governance.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed introducing additional subparagraphs requiring Parties to submit information on, inter alia, how the reported activities exclude carbon dioxide removals due to indirect human-induced effects.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported a readiness approach.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA to deliver on a mandate to negotiate a parallel protocol, to be completed by December 2012, which provides for comparable mitigation commitments for developed countries that do not have mitigation commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
 \t\tJoel Smith, Stratus Consulting, estimated that a total of US$50-170 \t\tbillion of additional investment and financial flows will be needed for \t\tadaptation in 2030, highlighting that damages caused by climate change \t\twere not included in the estimate and that the numbers would also depend \t\ton the amount of climate change.
SINGAPORE emphasized understanding the context and constraints of national circumstances before talking about parties’ contributions.
The EU suggested that developed countries face a dilemma, because it is unclear what the consequences of their policies are on developing countries.
With the US, she underlined the need for certainty and due process, and with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed the EU proposal for a powerful Chair.
On a paragraph on provision of support by developed countries and other countries in a position to do so, Guatemala, for AILAC, lamented lack of assurance on means of implementation post-2020.
\t\tTuvalu, on behalf of the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), \t\thighlighted adaptation and the needs of small island developing States \t\t(SIDS).
CANADA requested reflecting that the titles had been inserted by the facilitator.
The US stressed the need to approach loss and damage from a scientific perspective and to avoid unclear and/or political definitions.
 The US reminded delegates that several workshops on this topic were unsuccessfully proposed at INC-10 but expressed hope that they could be conducted now.
The US questioned including a reference to a position paper, but China insisted the inclusion was its sovereign right.
David \t\tWarrilow (UK) and Richard Odingo (Kenya), co-chaired the discussions on \t\telection procedures for the IPCC Bureau and Task Force Bureau.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for ensuring the smooth operation of the second commitment period, to commence on 1 January 2013, as well as securing a smooth post-2012 transition for the flexibility mechanisms.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the final decision on the panel must be made in the SBSTA.
JAPAN called for discussing the supply of credits, geographical distribution and potential sectors.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed that Annex I parties report on their provision of MOI.
The EU stressed that non-permanence reversals require compensation, while TUVALU suggested that current rules may be functioning and the lack of projects may reflect unwillingness of credit purchasers to bear the risk of reversals.
The G-77/ CHINA distributed, and later elaborated upon, a paper on the draft programme of work focusing on technology needs assessments, TT:CLEAR, enabling environments, capacity building, mechanisms, innovative financing, and frequency of meetings.
On the catalytic role of the Convention, PERU suggested enhancing synergies with the UNCCD and CBD.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and US, suggested replacing the sentence and surrounding text with a specific paragraph from decision 13/CP.7.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested removing clusters and considering the text as individual options.
While supporting the G-77/China proposal, TANZANIA and EGYPT expressed unease with the process, worrying that the different pace and methodologies of the facilitated groups could lead to inconsistencies.
AUSTRALIA noted that Annex I countries alone cannot fulfill the goals of the FCCC and said it was a sensitive issue that should be discussed in a non-controversial manner.
Peru, for AILAC, with many other parties, highlighted the need for coordination with related issues being discussed elsewhere.
PERU said the inaction of developed countries sends dangerous signals to non- Annex I countries.
The US called for the TEMs’ review in 2016.
On the outcomes of the modeling workshop, AOSIS proposed a paragraph calling on SBSTA to note the need to improve support for capacity building to developing country experts and to increase their participation in the modeling process.
The EU recognized concerns, but said he was confident the COP would be able to agree on the draft instrument and that parties should focus on interim arrangements to get things off the ground.
The AOSIS draft protocol requires Annex I Parties to the protocol to reduce their CO2 emissions by 2005 to a level of at least 20% below that of 1990, and to establish timetables for controlling emissions of other gases.
On agenda item 3, ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) highlighted informal notes on workstream 1 and workstream 2  (ADP.2015.10-11.InformalNote), and a technical paper produced by the Secretariat identifying closely related concepts, duplications and areas for streamlining (ADP.2015.12.InformalNote).
ICELAND, URUGUAY, CANADA, MEXICO, COSTA RICA and NEW ZEALAND supported the US’s concern that Option C refers to only a limited number of activities that can contribute to sinks.
Morocco, speaking for the G-77/China, called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol and on the US to "come back on board," and expressed concern about the low level of Parties 92 contributions to the Secretariat.
NORWAY supported the CDM and said it must be in a position to scale up its work.
The EU said the comments should be included if they diverge from the outcome of the process.
Cautioning against polarizing the process, SAUDI ARABIA supported open-ended informal consultations to identify areas of convergence and divergence.
The G-77/CHINA then introduced a proposal on the composition of ERTs and the selection of Lead Reviewers, based on a formula considering both UN regional representation, and Annex I and non-Annex I membership.
 INDONESIA called for binding commitments and mid-term goals for developed countries and support for building low carbon economies in developing countries.
AOSIS suggested that the Fund’s experience, with projects focused on the most vulnerable, could serve the Paris Agreement by filling the data gaps highlighted in the SCF 2018 Biennial Assessment.
ARGENTINA expressed concern with the word “careful” and the EU noted that reference to “careful” aimed to convey that action should be consistent with Protocol article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
HUNGARY and the EU proposed reference to relevant international and intergovernmental organizations.
Brazil underscored that rules cannot be used to avoid or mask true environmental integrity and, with Ecuador, for ALBA, and Bolivia, their position that the second commitment period to the Kyoto Protocol is the key issue.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the need for adaptation reporting.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said recent climate disasters in SIDS are evidence of their special circumstances, and that the UN Environment Gap Report shows it is not too late to get “us back on track to limit warming to 1.5 c2 b0C.”
TUVALU said drivers of deforestation identified in Appendix 2 should include governance and consumption for countries using imported forest products.
FRANCE called for a common approach to collective measures and said mechanisms should be based on a reliable system of compliance that includes sanctions.
 OECD countries in general supported a comprehensive protocol on all GHGs, stating that negotiations should begin at COP-1.
The US and EUROPEAN BUSINESS COUNCILS FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY proposed as priorities: setting clear near-term targets and timeframes; using market-based tools to account for “external costs” of energy, which would allow each Party to select suitable options; and reducing and eliminating institutional barriers, such as subsidies and tax exemptions.
NORWAY expressed concern about the G-77/China proposal to list existing funds under the Convention in the agreement.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of reporting and review for Annex I and non-Annex I countries, and called for the COP to switch to two-year cycles.
Bolivia, speaking on behalf of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America (ALBA), opposed convening a spin-off group on legal issues as it might lead to a “legal vacuum” by giving some countries the opportunity to opt-out of future agreements.
The G-77/CHINA, with others, said they had not consulted within the Group on the draft conclusions and preferred postponing the discussions.
On the text, parties flagged some points that have not been reflected and the US pointed to convergence on key messages.
On purpose, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, noted there are differences between realizing and operationalizing the global goal on adaptation, and said that efforts, not efforts and actions, should be recognized.
MICRONESIA sought clarification on bunker fuels with regard to regionally- specific emission factors and suggested a roundtable on bunker fuels for SBSTA-5.
VENEZUELA suggested examining consumption and production patterns with a view to find ways to transition to sustainable resource use.
The EU underscored the need to reach zero net emissions of CO2 and other long-lived GHGs by the end of the century to ensure consistency with the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report.
The US and SWITZERLAND opposed.
LIBYA underscored the externalities of nuclear energy.
HUNGARY and the AFRICA GROUP, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, advocated implementation of a quantitative limitation on the flexibility mechanisms.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, JAPAN and others, proposed that the main conclusions reflect that the work of the group is important beyond Poznan.
On \t\tmeasures to facilitate small-scale A&amp;R CDM project activities, PERU, \t\tsupported by BOLIVIA, CHILE, SENEGAL, COLOMBIA, and COSTA RICA, proposed \t\tdraft text for the decision that, inter alia: encourages host \t\tParties to put in place measures at the national and sub-national \t\tlevels, such as linking small-scale A&amp;R project activities to their \t\tsustainable development and poverty reduction strategies; requests \t\tfinancial and technical resources to assist developing country Parties \t\tin the areas set out in the decision ef bf bds annex to support project \t\timplementation; and urges the operating entity of the financial \t\tmechanism to adopt a streamlined and expedited procedure in financing \t\tactivities for this purpose.
Tuvalu, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the Protocol’s importance now and in the future and elaborated on its two proposals to amend the Protocol.
The US described efforts to enhance domestic mitigation ambition, including through renewable energies.
JAPAN suggested that all elements of the Bali Action Plan constitute a shared vision, with a long-term goal as a central element.
Norway, with the UK, Slovenia and others, questioned this deletion.
On features, parties proposed, among other things, further: elaborating features for each type of NDCs; guidance that is clear, general, durable and simple; and flexibility for LDCs.
The EU recognized IMO’s and ICAO’s technical competence but said the UNFCCC should show leadership.
On Annex I national communications, the EU called for a Secretariat report on the revisions proposed by Parties for consideration at SBSTA-9 and COP-5.
The G-77/CHINA elaborated on a proposal for a financial mechanism under the Convention.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported option 3.
CANADA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported a COP/MOP decision improving institutional and procedural aspects of the CDM.
She said, however, that the outcome does not reflect the EU’s ambitions and welcomed the decision to extend the mandate of both AWGs.
In response, the EU explained that the various options would have significant impacts on different countries’ individual targets, even though they will have small impacts on the aggregate target.
Spain, for the EU, with JAPAN, preferred joint SBI/SBSTA conclusions.
 CANADA identified possible subjects for updates in short-term assessments.
BARBADOS, supported by the US, the EU, GRENADA, AUSTRALIA and others, said that the COP Vice-President has been elected to serve by the COP and calls for his removal are “unjustified” and “unfortunate.”
VENEZUELA raised a point of order noting difficulties in entering the plenary.
 The EU commended the reviews and supported the Secretariat\'s proposal to compile information for years subsequent to 1990.
ETHIOPIA proposed a hybrid approach based on, inter alia: historical and per capita emissions; the global temperature goal; quantified and apportioned atmospheric space; and quantified emission rights.
Saudi Arabia, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), said the group would accept the draft text as a basis for negotiations on the understanding that parties could present new ideas in Katowice.
BRAZIL stressed the \t\timportance of developing scientific and technical cooperation and \t\tcreating a network of research centers on adaptation in developing \t\tcountries.
On paragraphs 91 and 92 on the scale of resources, parties did not agree to the proposal by G-77/CHINA to merge parts of these paragraphs.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for common rules on INDCs promoting clarity and comparability, focused on, inter alia: the latest IPCC methodologies; clarification on emissions from the land sector; standards for carbon; and MRV for support.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted: ambition and the need for information on the ambition gap; and common accounting rules.
On the Draft Conclusions on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by a number of Parties, including TUVALU speaking for the G-77/CHINA, proposed deleting text on convening an intersessional consultation on LULUCF after SBSTA-13.
UKRAINE requested inclusion of economies in transition in the development and transfer of technologies.
The EU said action by developing countries needs to be recognized and action by advanced developing countries should lead to substantial deviations from baseline emissions.
MEXICO identified need for all sources.
NEW ZEALAND suggested the Chair’s text be based on the non-paper.
CANADA, Chair of the drafting group, reported that Parties had agreed the MCP can be triggered by: a Party with respect to its own implementation; a group of Parties with respect to their own implementation; a Party or group of Parties with respect to implementation by another Party or group of Parties; and/or the Conference of Parties.
The EU, with the US, emphasized the need to discuss the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 as a sub-item.
On the inclusion of activities in decision 7/CP.7 (funding under the UNFCCC), particularly on economic diversification, the EU, with Norway, opposed by the G-77/ China, called for the deletion of the reference.
The US suggested identifying a single objective.
TUVALU outlined its proposed protocol, which he said would complement but not replace the Kyoto Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND called for transparency and revisiting the commitment period reserve.
KENYA suggested that countries that have submitted national communications be facilitated to conduct their technology needs assessments noting that the second national communication may not take place until 2006.
The PHILIPPINES, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the proposal, aimed at integrating decisions that refer to the GEF 92s activities.
PAKISTAN highlighted the importance of clarity concerning a coordination mechanism to register and facilitate NAMAs and corresponding support.
The US and Australia highlighted the iterative nature of the process of developing policy-relevant questions for the SYR.
KUWAIT, supported by NIGERIA and VENEZUELA, said Parties, rather than the IPCC, should determine the nature of this paper.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA warned against attempts to renegotiate the Convention and its principles.
In the guidelines under Article 8, the G-77/CHINA suggested deleting Part III on the review of information on AA.
The US, supported by the EU, suggested that workshops be organized based on status of preparation of communications, rather than on regions.
\t\t\tThe US and Japan emphasized ongoing actions.
Belize, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (CARICOM), emphasized using existing institutions, rather than e2 80 9creinventing the wheel.
He welcomed the newly elected EGTT Chair William Bonsu (Ghana) and vice-chair William Bradley (US).
INDIA stressed the need to ensure that the process remains party-driven and party-owned.
During the SBI closing plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, requested, and parties agreed, to refer only to additional guidance to the GEF in the title of the decision text.
Germanwatch, supported by the EU, emphasized the challenges in shipping and aviation transport, and called for including a sentence on this from the underlying report.
Underscoring social and economic aspects, the EU said this \t\twould be too simplistic.
SWITZERLAND encouraged all parties to engage in the INDCs process, and called for an equitable approach that builds on evolving circumstances and responsibilities.
The G-77/CHINA, ARGENTINA, and BRAZIL noted that the new UN General Assembly scale of assessment should not be applied automatically.
The EU deleted text that she said implied approval by Parties of the joint project.
On implementation, BRAZIL emphasized voluntary cancellation of CERs and recognizing the value of voluntary mitigation activities.
On positive or negative lists of CDM project activities, SENEGAL and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported retaining the option and highlighted the need to improve access to the CDM.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, proposed specifying that the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities applied between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
NICARAGUA stressed the need to ensure small farmers’ right to, and control over, seeds, land, water and food production, and called for an adequate financial mechanism to ensure food security.
CANADA requested that the Secretariat prepare a document on a longer-term programme.
The PHILIPPINES and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA called for additional refinement of economic analysis, including other analytical tools besides modeling.
The G-77/CHINA said its draft decision should serve as the basis for a recommendation to COP-5, since it presents a comprehensive approach to all capacity building activities and specifies developing countries 92 needs in its annex.
On Coverage, AUSTRALIA said the Guidelines could be structured based on the timing of information submitted, the Article under which the information was submitted, or the type of issues reviewed.
BRAZIL, opposed by AUSTRALIA, argued that the list of issues for consideration during the Article 9 review in decision 3/CMP.3 is exhaustive.
During discussions, SAINT LUCIA said eligibility criteria and accounting issues related to the flexibility mechanisms should be addressed in the spin-off groups and emphasized that parties should move to the higher end of their pledge ranges without conditionalities.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested adding a footnote to the options indicating they may require a Protocol amendment and said, with CHINA disagreeing, that this is not the right place or time for these discussions.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that the AWGs should finalize their work before the start of COP/MOP 6.
The EU underlined the importance of domestic implementation of INDCs.
 The US said that a drafting group should work on a mandate to begin a negotiating process within the SBI, with the SBSTA working on an assessment for limiting greenhouse gases (GHGs).
BRAZIL stressed the important contribution of REDD to NAMAs within a general framework that includes support.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, also preferred reference to Convention Article 3.5, which addresses trade.
 BANGLADESH said despite studies demonstrating its vulnerability to climate change it will fulfill its obligations under Article 4.1.
VENEZUELA said the work programme should not go beyond elements existing under the Convention.
Australia and the US said discussions should focus on minimizing adverse impacts rather than on compensation.
Belgium, the UK, Netherlands, Germany, \t\t\tthe US, Co-Chair Davidson and others stressed that many hours had \t\t\tbeen spent discussing every word and urged Brazil to accept the \t\t\tcompromise.
Brazil, Tanzania, South Africa, AOSIS, Switzerland and others supported the option stating that capacity building shall be enhanced with regard to the building blocks of the BAP and all aspects of the Convention, as well as emerging needs.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed that the Plenary be extended to allow the Parties to determine how the SAR should be used in making decisions, particularly regarding the Berlin Mandate and how countries will fulfill their obligations.
On scope she also emphasized, with SOUTH AFRICA, that adaptation should not include the consideration of response measures.
Seychelles, for AOSIS, stressed that AOSIS has made the economic, scientific and moral case for emission reductions at the level that science demands, while lamenting the “enormous gap” between the pledges and science.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, objected to the absence of language on adaptation, with the PHILIPPINES adding that the word was “profusely used” in previous discussions.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC called for a decision on the adequacy of Annex I commitments before consideration of other country commitments.
TUVALU explained that his country’s proposal contains provisions on: mitigation by developed and developing countries; adaptation; risk-management and risk-reduction; technology; a fund with different funding windows; and immunities for persons serving under various bodies to be established.
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and POLAND, supported not having a paragraph on mechanisms in this section.
With the US, he highlighted that such a fund could add complexity to the provision of funding due to the difficulty in distinguishing between natural and human-induced climate disasters.
JAPAN supported the SAR findings and said specific P&amp;M should be clarified.
INDIA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and others, stated that the focus of this contact group should be on aggregate and individual reduction targets for Annex I parties, and that the AWG-LCA should consider reduction targets of Annex I countries that are not Protocol parties.
UGANDA said a ministerial segment would allow an exchange of views and experiences and could give Parties the will to move forward on Convention responsibilities.
The US, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA argued these issues should be addressed in decision text.
AUSTRALIA welcomed parties’ interest in a legally-binding outcome and, noting her country’s efforts to advance such discussions, supported a “robust discussion” bringing together all related proposals.
The UK, Belgium, Kenya, Morocco and Switzerland warned against trying to formulate detailed rules before the next Bureau takes office and suggested using softer language.
CHINA and INDIA said Annex I countries have the main responsibility.
The EU noted that it would be useful to introduce this in the future given the EU’s particular character.
e2 80 9d Saying e2 80 9cparity e2 80 9d is vague, the US proposed e2 80 9cunderscoring the importance of adaptation.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, expressed concern that the group 92s suggestions, in particular one regarding the biome approach to the definition of "forest," had not been considered, and that the text as it stands was unbalanced.
CANADA supported “less intrusive” mechanisms for implementing P&amp;Ms, including education and information sharing.
The EU emphasized that “we are here to deliver” a balanced package as agreed in Durban.
Parties agreed to informal consultations co-facilitated by Hugh Sealy (Maldives) and Kelley Kizzier (EU).
COSTA RICA argued that global leakage would be a significant problem should LULUCF activities not be allowed under the CDM, as timber stocks in different parts of the world are linked through the global market, and a small shift of logging activities from Annex I countries to non-Annex I countries would lead to a proportionally larger increase in loss of carbon.
SAUDI ARABIA, with OMAN, pointed to carbon sequestration as an option to offset emissions from fossil fuel use.
The EU, \t\tthe US and New Zealand favored improved understanding and cooperation.
SPAIN described two periods of his country e2 80 99s emissions: pre-2005 with parallel growth in emissions, economy and population; and post-2005, with emissions declining due to the economic recession, and policies and measures to support renewable electricity generation.
EGYPT noted that the mandate of the sub-group is to explore various approaches but not to establish new mechanisms.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, opposed by Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA, BRAZIL and the PHILIPPINES, reiterated support for establishing an expert group, highlighting the guiding role that such a body could play.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for urgent focus on a loss and damage work programme.
The EU expressed disappointment over the lack of progress on, among other issues, shared vision and various approaches.
EGYPT called for the development of a well-defined vulnerability index.
VIETNAM, PERU and BENIN stressed that the Kyoto Protocol is the cornerstone of the regime to address climate change.
INDIA, supported by the G-77/CHINA, suggested including reference to the WMO principles for free data exchange, while the US cautioned against referring to principles established under any one specific organization.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, SWITZERLAND and UKRAINE called for a comprehensive review.
He identified opportunities as: stakeholder appreciation of NAPAs; creation of the LDC Fund for financing NAPA activities; and bilateral and national interest in funding activities outside the LDC Fund.
On sources of input, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, and NEW ZEALAND called for a flexible definition of “all elements,” and not limiting them to adaptation, mitigation and MOI.
GRENADA proposed inserting a preamble recognizing that developed countries shall achieve their QELROs primarily through domestic efforts.
On the roster of experts, CANADA, the UK, the US and NEW ZEALAND called for regular reviews as well as inclusion of gender considerations.
The US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, identified the need to streamline discussions on response measures.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, said Durban must deliver an outcome that ensures the fulfillment of the Convention’s ultimate objective.
BRAZIL, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, then introduced a text for a new Part III bis that addresses the terminology "initial AA" and replaces it with "amounts that contribute to the compliance of a Party included in Annex I with the quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment under Article 3."
MALAYSIA supported the creation of a report on inventory of technologies referred to in the programme of work and the SBI\'s work on AIJ.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, underlined that the issue of financing is of “utmost importance for a successful outcome in Doha.” She stated that without finance, institutions will be empty and ineffective, and expressed concern about the lack of progress on adaptation and technology transfer in the text.
The US called for clarifying language on suggested regular assessments of ready-to-transfer technologies.
The EU, with Japan, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the US, recommended that the options on the compliance committee 92s composition be kept open.
BELARUS highlighted that the economies of countries in transition to a market economy had “crashed” in the 1990s, causing their emissions to halve and therefore they cannot increase their pledges.
Pointing to various approaches being implemented at the national level, the US, supported by JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, but opposed by GRENADA and CHINA, noted that carbon units should be tracked as they move between countries.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, JAPAN, the EU and the US supported the global goal of halving emissions by 2050, and the EU suggested that developed countries must decrease their emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
On Accounting, SWITZERLAND, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported full carbon accounting.
BANGLADESH called for a mechanism for prompt financial support to respond to localized extreme events and highlighted the proposal for an international air travel levy to raise additional funding for adaptation.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, emphasized the group’s commitment to the fulfillment of the BAP and finding appropriate solutions to issues not addressed in Cancun.
Since the OPEC member States are largely opposed to the protocol negotiations and are holding up agreement on the Rules of Procedure, they could effectively block the future work of the COP and its subsidiary bodies.
CHINA, BRAZIL and SOUTH AFRICA stressed that further work is needed on the issue of MRV of support to developing countries.
Reacting to a question by the US on the challenges and opportunities of having the world e2 80 99s highest per capita car ownership, he listed key sectoral policy approaches: infrastructure and vehicle fleet modernization; acceleration of modal shifts; and promotion of low-carbon fuels.
AOSIS, with Bangladesh, said that failure to mitigate emissions has resulted in the need to increase adaptation measures.
Responding to COP President Mezouar’s suggestion that the SBI, SBSTA and APA complete their work by Monday, 14 November, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), requested that there be a possibility for consultations to continue past that date on issues related to the Paris Agreement that do not require definitive decisions in Marrakech.
The BAHAMAS suggested the facilitative method be both forward and backward looking.
 BOLIVIA and SOUTH AFRICA urged greater equilibrium between the rules relating to CDM and JI.
ARGENTINA, supported by FINLAND and BENIN, said innovative approaches were needed, and called for the establishment of small task forces in the run-up to COP-6.
 AGBM 2 saw the emergence of two new approaches to the structure and content of new commitments for Annex I Parties: the EU formal proposal for three annexes of policies and measures and the US and others\' recommendations for group and cumulative targets.
MOROCCO noted that financial resources should be provided for any institutions that will service the instrument.
On adoption of the agenda, SAUDI ARABIA proposed including "preparatory work under the related provisions of Articles 2.3 and 3.14 of the Kyoto Protocol" in an item on technology transfer.
  This drafting group was facilitated by Dan Reifsnyder (US) and a “spin-off” group was facilitated by Burhan Gafoor (Singapore).
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, underlined the need to ensure environmental integrity and go beyond offsetting to increasing mitigation ambition.
COP President Baalu welcomed delegates to the first Ministerial Round Table under the theme "Taking Stock," co-chaired by Minister Margaret Beckett (UK).
JAPAN cautioned against overburdening the prototype as it could complicate the technical capacity of the Registry.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized the need to: preserve the balance between issues laid out in the Paris Agreement; achieve a consistent package reflecting parties’ textual submissions; and bear in mind national circumstances.
The US, SWITZERLAND and CANADA opposed current exclusion of NGOs from the contact group on flexibility mechanisms.
SWITZERLAND said that: a common accounting framework is needed for all types of commitments; economy-wide emission reduction commitments may not need exact ex ante information; and that transparency and accounting is key to both delivery and reception of support.
Timor Leste, for LDCs, welcomed the technical paper on assessing the risk of loss and damage (FCCC/TP/2012/1) and report on the expert meeting held in Tokyo, Japan, from 26-28 March 2012 (FCCC/SBI/2012/INF.3) as a good basis for substantive discussions.
BURKINA FASO informed it had submitted its NAP, constituting the first of its kind from an LDC.
Responding to a question by BRAZIL on a projected increase in Croatia e2 80 99s emissions, she explained that the EU e2 80 9ceffort sharing e2 80 9d enables an increase of 11% of non-ETS emissions by 2020, from 2005, but Croatia is taking measures to remain below this target.
MALAYSIA emphasized the vulnerability of developing countries and those in poverty and, with the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported consideration of adaptation measures.
Supported by SWITZERLAND, he proposed regional or sub-regional TEMs to focus on specific projects that can be replicated through support from the GCF or bilateral cooperation.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the financial mechanism, particularly regarding issues concerning access to finance.
 Barbados, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), suggested that work on long-term finance should focus on: scaling up finance; improving access to finance for developing countries; and ensuring a balance between adaptation and mitigation activities.
 SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of VENEZUELA, IRAN, KUWAIT, UAE, SYRIA, QATAR, JORDAN, The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NIGERIA, OMAN, BAHRAIN, SUDAN and YEMEN, reported a lack of transparency throughout the Conference.
BOLIVIA expressed concern over the lack of balance in the texts, underscoring the need for further reflecting non-market approaches in text on various approaches and REDD+.
JAPAN stressed the importance of research, development and deployment and international cooperation.
 \t\tMAURITIUS STRATEGY ON SIDS:
The AOSIS amendments included a reference that the "AGBM would as part of the negotiating process, bearing in mind the need to adopt a protocol or another legally binding instrument at COP 3."
The US noted that they had agreed to discuss the impacts of water resources under the NWP, but did not accept adopting it as a stand-alone item.
GERMANY said addressing climate change could create new jobs.
MEXICO, the EU and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC welcomed the initiative.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, urged a focus on quantified emission reductions for Annex I parties.
MOROCCO said an adaptation fund should be funded from financial sanctions in case of non-compliance and, with SENEGAL, added that the three mechanisms should feed into it.
The G-77/CHINA said that, after days of informal discussions, there is “absolutely no consensus” on adopting the agenda and requested that the chair clarify which legal options are available.
INDIA said that actions should be differentiated on the basis of equity and that the consideration of national circumstances should allow for countries to choose the form and nature of actions to be undertaken.
ALGERIA questioned the transparency of the process.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA noted that a legally-binding agreement needs to be adopted as soon as practically possible and clarified that they did not support the AOSIS proposal.
The Gambia, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), underscored the need to resolve outstanding issues to enable the adoption of a second commitment period.
PAKISTAN suggested presenting proposals on institutional arrangements in a table to guide negotiations.
NORWAY, with the EU, noted potential for further convergence in the text.
The LDCs stressed that financial flows should be scaled up to 1.5% of the GDP of developed countries and that 70% of adaptation funds should be earmarked for the LDCs, SIDS, and African countries.
 \t\t\tParticipants decided to add a sentence proposed by the UK stating \t\t\tthat models used to date do not include the full effects of \t\t\tdynamical changes in ice flow, and to include this understanding \t\t\twithin the projections table (Table SPM-2).
KAZAKHSTAN reaffirmed its will to become an Annex I Party and called for no limits on emissions trading.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the possible disproportionate impacts of the different options on certain parties.
BRAZIL explained that the technical panels would have broader functions than addressing finance-related issues, and would, inter alia: support relevant institutions; facilitate skill development; and showcase lessons learned as well as experience gained in the implementation of capacity building.
BRAZIL, with SAUDI ARABIA and BOLIVIA, highlighted the need to include other elements, such as adequacy of pledges in relation to historical responsibility and level of ambition in the mid- and long-term.
The AFRICAN GROUP opposed proposals to provide loan financing, as opposed to grants, to developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA proposed utilizing UNFCCC reports on long-term finance as a basis to understand enabling environments.
AUSTRALIA called for the identification of synergies in technology transfer activities under other Conventions.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, presented a proposal on a possible protocol structure based on three principles: consistency with the BM, consistency with the Convention and the need for a dynamic instrument.
The EU supported discussing the issue under the AWG-LCA.
BANGLADESH urged deleting paragraphs where possible.
CHINA noted that developed country emissions were projected to be 5% above 1990 levels by 2000 and 13% above 1990 levels by 2010.
BARBADOS lamented the “unequal way” of dealing with controversial issues, noting that the text contained reference to response measures while no references to LDCs and SIDS were included.
BOLIVIA said the text does not include a compliance, monitoring and comparability system to ensure that developed countries meet their QELROs.
The G-77/CHINA said the joint cooperation mechanisms bring about technical, political and other new uncertainties that must be settled.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC highlighted the futility of short workshops, as developing countries needed continuous ones.
CHILE stated that the order of paragraphs (2) and (3) should be reversed, to highlight the purpose of analysis and assessment, and said that the draft conclusions should accommodate a greater level of precision.
On JI, TUVALU requested that these factors be included when determining the environmental integrity and additionality of project types.
France, on behalf of the EU, proposed that the Interim Secretariat, in cooperation with the GEF Secretariat and interested non-Annex I Parties, draw up guidelines for national communications by developing countries to be endorsed at COP-1.
Parties deliberated on proposals by the EU and US in the Co-Chairs 92 draft text.
The US and Norway expressed interest in the proposal, with caveats.
AUSTRALIA and SENEGAL stressed private sector involvement.
Capacity Building: The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICAN GROUP and others said capacity building is necessary to ensure meaningful participation from developing countries.
Gambia, for the LDCs, recommended cooperation between the UNFCCC and UNCCD.
SOUTH AFRICA supported development of a clear programme of work, establishment of an intersessional working group and a timeframe to ensure the Kyoto targets are met.
On a paragraph on updating the synthesis report on the aggregate effect of INDCs, parties engaged in a long discussion on text requesting the Secretariat to “provide information on the fairness and ambition of the INDCs communicated by parties.” Malaysia for the Like-Minded Developing Countries (LMDCs), India, Saudi Arabia for the Arab Group, and the Russian Federation, among others, called for deleting the text.
CANADA, supporting the Chair\'s "balanced" draft conclusions, said that the proposed amendments would need be considered in detail and might slow the work of AGBM 1.
ANTIGUA and BARBUDA supported differentiating countries based on vulnerability and supported direct access through a financial mechanism under the COP.
Monaco, on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), highlighted the need for progress on technical issues, such as LULUCF, the transformation of emission reduction pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs), carry-over of surplus assigned amount units (AAUs), and the flexibility mechanisms.
The EU referenced existing institutions and said insurance can provide pricing for risk.
The EU highlighted progress made, including on finance, indicating that the US$100 billion mobilization includes multiple sources.
Noting diverging views, the US and India supported holding a conversation on text on intellectual property rights and a long-term technology goal.
BOLIVIA lamented that the Chair’s text was unbalanced and that their proposals had not been reflected in it.
SWAZILAND, JAPAN and UGANDA called for a specific discussion on which existing institutions could be strengthened and how, with Senegal, for the LDCs, Jamaica, for AOSIS, and China, for the G-77/CHINA, questioning whether the Durban Forum on Capacity-building could address existing gaps, as suggested by the US.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the EU, called for addressing function prior to the issue of a name.
 LDC Expert Group (LEG) Chair Laavasa Malua (Samoa) reported on the work of the LEG.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed its reservation on the request to the Secretariat to coordinate with bilateral and multilateral institutions in preparing the elements of a draft framework for capacity building activities, since this would be a top-down approach.
 The EU: Rit Bjerregaard, Commissioner for the Environment, strongly endorsed the SAR as the basis for a protocol or other legally binding instrument and urged that the COP take decisive action.
The ARAB GROUP opposed linkages to the compliance mechanism.
On registries, the G-77/CHINA noted that this issue could be addressed within each of the Articles on mechanisms.
TUVALU noted difficulty in seeking funding for NAPAs from the GEF.
 The meeting then adopted the Chair’s draft text on linkages between AG-13 and AGBM, as amended by the US and SOUTH AFRICA, asking the COP to decide that the AGBM may, in its consideration of a MCP, seek such advice as may be deemed necessary from AG-13.
On submissions, AUSTRALIA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by a number of Parties, suggested the deletion of the possibility for a Party to submit a question of implementation with respect to another Party, explaining that it had the potential to create rifts among Parties or could eventually be used for "other reasons," and that the reports from expert review teams (ERTs) provided a thorough triggering process.
While the Co-Chair implored delegates not to argue about restructuring, the US, France, Japan and Australia responded, since the issue of universality had been vigorously negotiated.
The EU and CANADA stressed the need to build on SBI-18 conclusions, and the G-77/CHINA said the work should be based on its submission to SBI-18.
Japan and the US said a legally-binding agreement should include all major emitters.
Using a hybrid car as an analogy, MEXICO noted that a hybrid set of financial mechanisms was needed with “different sets of engines that can be coordinated to ensure the vehicle is moving at the proper speed.”
 : The COP decisions (FCCC/SBI/2011/L.40 Add.1 and FCCC/SBI/2011/L.41/Add.1) request the GEF as operating entity of the LDC Fund to, inter alia:
Participants heard presentations about \t\tChina 92s 11th Five-year Plan, impacts of hurricanes on SIDS, Brazil 92s \t\tproposal to provide positive incentives to reduce emissions from \t\tdeforestation in developing countries, integrating climate change into \t\tdevelopment strategies and the relationship between the Millennium \t\tDevelopment Goals (MDGs) and climate risks.
The EU noted that advanced developing countries can do more on mitigation than other developing countries.
This round table was chaired by Kilaparti Ramakrishna of the Woods Hole Research Center (US).
TURKEY said developed countries should report according to existing guidelines for Annex I countries.
The EU outlined as priorities: draft decisions or textual elements on all areas of the Paris Agreement work programme; clarity on how the Talanoa Dialogue will be conducted; and contributions by all to the momentum of the Global Climate Action Agenda.
Several delegations, including the EU and VENEZUELA, called for analysis of socio-economic impacts of different limitation proposals.
JAPAN stated that global regulations should apply universally to all aircraft or ships, regardless of country of operation or registration and, therefore, the CBDR principle should not apply.
 AUSTRALIA stressed the need to deliver the work plan for the technical experts.
AUSTRALIA called for a focus on actual rather than potential impacts.
The US emphasized the need for differentiation among parties, depending on changing social and economic conditions, as well as current emissions and emission trends.
The EU noted that adding new gases would require an amendment of the Protocol and Vice-Chair Dovland said there would be a placeholder in the text for amending Protocol Annex A.
SWITZERLAND cautioned against “picking and choosing” among report elements.
The US, EU, Canada and Australia said that the new financial framework should be built on existing institutions, while many developing countries highlighted the need for new financial architecture.
On establishing a fund for climate-related disaster relief, the EU cautioned against duplicating other organizations 92 work.
Several groups of parties, including the G-77/China and the EU, expressed willingness to propose draft elements.
TANZANIA, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the COP-7 decision had not been implemented by the GEF and its developed country partners.
The G-77/ China, supported by Argentina, the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), Saudi Arabia and other developing countries, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement on the financial mechanism.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, called for strengthening developed country commitments through the establishment of policies and measures and QELROs within specified time frames.
The EU called for submissions by parties before Doha on possible initiatives, a Secretariat summary and intersessional workshops.
Informal consultations on the LDC Fund were facilitated by Margaret Sangarwe (Zimbabwe) and Michelle Campbell (Canada).
Australia, the US, Japan, Switzerland, and New Zealand expressed concern with this objection.
CANADA highlighted national communications and said establishing a permanent forum to consider response measures is premature.
On Classification of Inventory Problems in the Guidelines under Article 8, delegates continued consideration of the EU proposal.
The G-77/CHINA queried whether discussions on complementarity had begun between the GCF and GEF with regards to financing of biennial update reports.
Algeria, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), said the Durban Platform must ensure strong linkages among mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation, and include the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR).
NORWAY suggested that promotion of compliance applies to legally-binding portions of the Paris Agreement, and facilitation of implementation to both binding and non-binding elements.
As of 9 May 1998, the following 39 Parties had signed the Kyoto Protocol (in order of signature): Maldives, Samoa, Antigua and Barbuda, Switzerland, Saint Lucia, Argentina, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Seychelles, the Philippines, Malta, Costa Rica, Japan, Austria, Germany, Finland, Portugal, France, Sweden, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the UK, Brazil, Norway, Monaco, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, China, Panama, El Salvador and Mexico.
SAMOA underscored adaptation financing through grants rather than loans.
During COP 22, 360 businesses, including global brands such as Nike and Starbucks, urged US President-elect Donald Trump to power the US economy with low-carbon energy.
CHINA queried if the ERTs could trigger cases of non-compliance.
 INDIA echoed the Republic of Korea’s apprehensions on the implications of P&amp;M on trade.
INDIA stressed fundamental differences concerning mitigation under paragraphs 1(b)(i) and 1(b)(ii), and, with the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that MRV is also different under these paragraphs.
INDIA highlighted a paper by the G-77/CHINA which sets out concerns on the Annex.
However, the EU, US and other developed countries tended to favor the use of existing institutions to perform these functions.
HUNGARY announced the establishment of a new negotiating group - the "Central Group Eleven," comprising various Central and Eastern European countries - and expressed a preference for the establishment of a "consultative process."
BOLIVIA suggested, regarding IPRs in developing countries: compulsory licensing; voluntary licenses; patent pooling; mandatory exclusion; and/or extension of exemptions.
SAUDI ARABIA, the EU and the US opposed.
The US said the development of such rules was not mandated by the Cancun Agreements and suggested they be based on IPCC methodologies.
 CANADA: Sergio Marchi, Minister of the Environment, strongly supported the SAR as a basis for urgent action, noting that uncertainties regarding the rate and level of climate change are not grounds for inaction.
The EU, Umbrella Group and Tuvalu also condemned this behavior, but noted that both organizations had apologized and responded promptly to the incident with disciplinary action against those involved.
China, with Pakistan and Argentina, requested references to the BAP and, with Algeria, for the Arab Group, and others, to previous COP decisions.
The US also outlined a proposal to establish centers of excellence and a climate technology hub to, inter alia, increase availability, capacity and information exchange related to technology.
The US said its Congress was considering a request for US$ 50 million for the GEF for various climate change activities, to be included in the 2010 budget.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, agreed, noting that, while everyone should participate, rules are required.
The EU rejected these proposals.
The EU highlighted its funding proposal, which focuses on the need to improve and increase funding for the GEF, especially taking into consideration the needs of least developed countries (LDCs), and suggests an "adaptation fund plus" within the existing GEF structure.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed dissatisfaction with discussions on pre-2020 ambition and called for a results-oriented approach.
SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA for the AFRICA GROUP, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA, and NIGERIA opposed the use of the text, and proposed using the last version of the draft conclusions or conclude that there was no agreement.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, warned against transferring issues from the AWG-LCA to the Subsidiary Bodies and said specific issues mandated for consideration by the SBI in Decision 1/CP.16 must feed into a balanced outcome from the AWG-LCA.
 MALAYSIA said many developing countries do not have the capabilities and capacity in technical expertise or financial resources to complete inventories to international standards.
The EU proposed strengthening institutional arrangements through COP decisions and the third comprehensive review of the capacity-building framework.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern over the slow progress in Bangkok, and urged all parties to make greater commitments, and advance in a balanced and equitable manner on both Convention tracks.
The EU reiterated willingness to consider a second commitment period in line with its previously stated conditions, including an overall level of ambition sufficient to achieve the 2°C target.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with slow progress on Agreement Article 9.5, and APA agenda items 3 (mitigation section) and 4 (adaptation communication).
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, said the issue of timing and procedures for entry into force of Protocol amendments should be discussed, in order to ensure there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
On Chapter 2 on Observations: atmosphere and surface, the UK requested the inclusion of changes in soil temperature and moisture.
CHILE noted the need to have institutional linkages between existing and new mechanisms to enable sharing of experiences between them.
On holding a workshop on emissions projections, the US stressed that follow-up activities should not be decided until the workshop has been completed.
Micronesia, speaking for AOSIS and also speaking for Argentina, Benin, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Gambia, Guatemala, Ecuador, El Salvador, Kenya, Mozambique, Panama, Peru, Senegal, Togo and Uganda, highlighted scientific findings since the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and urged stabilization at below 350 ppm.
The US, supported by COLOMBIA, but opposed by some parties, proposed also including the project-based mechanisms.
He said the CACAM countries were proposing that all references to "developing countries" in these decisions should be changed to "developing countries and other Parties not included in Annex I."
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported common minimum elements.
INDIA called on parties to use the term “sustainable management of forests” to ensure environmental integrity.
NORWAY said elements on which consensus cannot be reached should be set aside for the time being.
Subsequently, the EU opposed proceeding on this text, preferring to return to discussions on what the priority areas should be.
The US called for using the existing financial institutions, which have the administrative capacity and fiduciary experience to manage the new funds.
TURKEY opposed, calling for a common framework with common MRV provisions applicable to all parties, with flexibility for developing countries on the level and depth of the application of the common MRV provisions.
  In the morning, Co-Chair Ure opened the contact group on potential consequences, noting that since the coordinators of the G-77/China and the EU were unable to attend the meeting, no substantive discussions would be undertaken.
INDONESIA underscored the need for a compliance mechanism.
A contact group co-chaired by Jim Penman (UK) and Mark Mwandosya (Tanzania) met in the afternoon to consider text on draft guidelines for the preparation of Annex I communications.
 On the nature of issues to be addressed, the US expressed concern on having an MCP interpret the Convention and noted that this issue needs careful consideration.
SOUTH \t\tAFRICA called for sustained financial support for developing countries \t\tto implement adaptation plans and, with INDONESIA, said these should be \t\tintegrated into development plans.
BELARUS said technology transfer was a concern also for Annex I countries.
In the absence of an offer from the Eastern European regional group, ITALY offered to host COP-9.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for awareness that “this is our text and it will be our ability to listen to one another and our ability to articulate our needs” that will enable an effective agreement.
BOLIVIA proposed that each country use the starting point that gives the highest emission reductions, and emphasized that the pledges on the table would only result in a 10% reduction from current emission levels.
The US bracketed a request to the Secretariat to organize a workshop and to report the workshop results to COP-7.
EGYPT said climate finance should be related to the global temperature goal, and called for identification of needs, priorities and necessary enabling environments.
One developing country group further opposed references to other categories of developing countries, such as the LDCs and SIDS.
TUVALU expressed disappointment with the lack of progress on this issue.
The EU, BRAZIL and others underscored comparability of efforts and action by Annex I non-ratifiers of the Protocol.
The US recommended "competent bodies" to permit other than international bodies.
AOSIS stated that the key issue in the negotiations is the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol as part of a two-track approach, including a legally binding agreement under the AWG-LCA.
On the share of proceeds, the US proposed that this be addressed by the group on guidelines.
NORWAY said developed countries must accept even more ambitious targets in the future.
COSTA RICA also opposed re-negotiation on what kinds of sinks are included.
The US, with Finland, \t\tnoted that the workshops referred to in decision 1/CP.10 were already \t\tspoken for.
SWITZERLAND noted his proposed global carbon dioxide levy to generate resources for adaptation.
CANADA and others underscored that the contribution of LULUCF to national targets depends on the rules.
The US \t\tpointed out that such arrangements should be reviewed periodically, and \t\tdelegates agreed that COP/MOP 1 and COP 11 should serve as the framework \t\tfor COP/MOP 2 and COP 12, but that later sessions should not be \t\treferenced.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, emphasized the importance of this issue to developing countries and requested the Secretariat to prepare text on this issue.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS underscored that the guidelines should be flexible and robust.
Under organization of work, CHINA emphasized building on existing mechanisms and the principle of differentiation.
 VENEZUELA stated that the need for all policies and measures to be submitted should be assessed for economic, trade and social impacts, that full compliance will require innovative approaches, and that the AGBM should not hastily reject options or measures.
BOLIVIA underscored the difference between natural forests and plantations, and highlighted the need for public funding, while opposing market- or project-based funding.
IRAN said the AGBM should cooperate with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Energy Agency (IEA), OPEC, UNIDO and others to assess which P&amp;M are effective and efficient.
Scientists from the US and the UK announced that 1997 was the warmest year on record and that nine of the last eleven years were among the warmest periods ever recorded.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, referred to the Kyoto Protocol as an important part of efforts to reduce emissions, offering rules and infrastructure that can be used towards a new framework.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the reference to the adoption of the operational strategy, but FRANCE stated that the phrase was essential.
On the supervisory body, parties discussed, inter alia: using existing models such as the committee to facilitate implementation and compliance under Agreement Article 15, and the PCCB; alternative models of representation and how to include LDCs and SIDS; rules of procedure, including using rules of the Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board and linkages with the CMA; and the arrangements for the transfer of share of proceeds.
In the subsequent discussion, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA noted that insurance companies are beginning to withdraw coverage and increase rates for some coastal areas, which could impede economic growth, particularly in the tourism industry.
The EU, opposed by Kenya, proposed a \t\tdraft study to identify key policy-relevant research issues to be \t\tcommunicated to the research community.
The PHILIPPINES urged parties to “walk fast, far and forward.” AUSTRALIA identified ambition as a broader issue that must be addressed beyond the Protocol’s second commitment period.
The G-77/CHINA said he has presented a position paper to the subsidiary bodies.
 Referring to ongoing discussions on the Protocol’s flexibility mechanisms and NAMAs, CHINA said that overlap with other contact groups under the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP should be avoided.
The US and New Zealand highlighted the important role of the private sector in ensuring the Fund functions.
SWEDEN said developing \t\tcountries with rapid economic growth are undergoing technological \t\tchanges that will determine the possibilities for future emissions \t\treductions.
EGYPT noted that results on elements such as bunker fuels and markets might not be achievable.
NORWAY said technology needs assessments should be integrated within NAMAs and NAPAs.
The WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION outlined the results of the Third World Climate Conference to develop a Global Framework for Climate Services and the GLOBAL CLIMATE OBSERVING SYSTEM (GCOS) reported on its updated Implementation Plan, noting that the additional annual cost of a fully effective GCOS will be US$ 2.1 billion.
  Co-Facilitator George Wamukoya (Kenya) recalled that the Wednesday spin-off had agreed on five concepts: reference to the Convention; science; the sustainable development agenda; integrity; and issues related to SIDS and LDCs.
In the ensuing discussion participants drew attention to the PRECIS regional impact assessment model developed by the UK 92s Hadley Centre and asked about its status.
Martin Parry (UK), Working Group II Co-Chair, introduced the Working Group II report (IPCC-XXII/Doc.10).
In response, CHINA underscored that Annex I emissions account for 70% of cumulative emissions until 2010, and stated that emerging economies will have a slower emissions growth rate because of the global recession.
AOSIS proposed including, in a COP decision on this item, a mandate to the SBI and SBSTA to consider loss and damage intersessionally.
 The US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA strongly supported AIJ.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said the TEC should be a stand-alone body and report to the COP.
On the relationship between Articles 13 and 14, JAPAN, VENEZUELA, MOROCCO and SLOVENIA noted that Articles 13 and 14 are clearly different.
MALAYSIA, for the G-77/China, said developed countries have taken insufficient steps in developing enabling environments, and expressed concern at the EGTT 92s limited financial resources.
NEW ZEALAND suggested e2 80 9cnet zero CO2 emissions by 2100 e2 80 9d in line with the latest science.
CHINA, Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and TUVALU sought a comprehensive arrangement for all the items in the table of “orphan issues.”
The size of the Board was also discussed, and a proposal was made by the G-77/CHINA considering additional Annex I and non-Annex I board members.
On additional guidance to the operating entity of the financial mechanism, UGANDA, supported by GHANA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and BANGLADESH, called for capacity-building for national focal points and for technology transfer.
The contact group met on Thursday, 6 June, to consider a Co-Chairs 92 proposed draft working paper and annex (FCCC/SBSTA/ 2002/2/Add.1-3), which incorporated EU and US technical proposals on the guidelines.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, CANADA and the US stressed continued use of the existing Technology Mechanism.
INDIA, BRAZIL and others stressed that NAMAs are separate from the CDM.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, said the situation was regrettable and urged parties in the position to offer resources to do so.
BRAZIL supported having two different sections on mitigation by Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
On objectives and scope, the G-77/CHINA and Barbados, for AOSIS, said that language on the provision of financial resources to take nationally appropriate mitigation and adaptation actions should not be limited in scope.
SWITZERLAND suggested including in the 2015 agreement: reference to e2 80 9ceach party e2 80 9d rather than e2 80 9call parties e2 80 9d mobilizing climate finance; some text on the purpose of financial resources; and applicable principles, such as being results-based, recognizing developing countries e2 80 99 investment, and reflecting evolving capabilities and responsibilities.
Delegates approved a proposal by the EU for a workshop prior to SBSTA-16 to develop the terms of reference and a work agenda, and for Parties to provide the Secretariat with submissions by 1 February 2002.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said their proposal was coherent with the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund and would fund additional elements, such as addressing loss and damage, and insurance.
The \t\tCOP/MOP elected 10 members and 10 alternates for the Joint \t\tImplementation Supervisory Committee, including three from countries \t\twith economies in transition (EITs), three from other Annex I Parties, \t\tthree from non-Annex I Parties and one from SIDS (FCCC/KP/CMP/2005/L.1 \t\tand Add.1).
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, argued that a JI project should be subject to CDM-type scrutiny only where a Party does not comply with Articles 5 and 7, and where these both impact on the project.
The US observed that the amalgamation document was a useful step forward in progressing negotiations, but said some areas of the text are too long, while others capture disagreements that require further negotiation.
CANADA \t\trequested retaining the brackets on bundling, given insufficient time to \t\tconsider the issue.
On the effective participation in the UNFCCC process, ARGENTINA stressed the need to facilitate effective participation of developing country Parties.
BRAZIL stressed the importance of an agreement that does not need to be revisited every cycle.
The EU explained that it was difficult to ascertain potential impacts and requested developing countries to provide information on impacts experienced.
France, for the EU, said the fight against climate change cannot wait for a recovery from the economic recession and stressed that the EU’s goals are clear even if internal debate is taking place on legislation to implement the 20% reduction target for 2020.
SOUTH AFRICA acknowledged Japan’s new target and invited other Annex I countries to come up with emission reductions consistent with the scale required by science, while encouraging them not to condition their pledges on action by others.
Regarding the use of ODA and GEF funds, the G-77/CHINA emphasized that CDM funding should be additional to ODA and other financial commitments.
On the draft COP/MOP-1 decision related to Article 5.2, the US suggested that adjustments applying to a Party 92s base-year inventory estimates could not be replaced by revised estimates subsequent to the establishment of a Party 92s initial AA.
The EU preferred the branches to have different expertise corresponding to their functions 96 a technical team for facilitation and a legal team for enforcement.
SAUDI ARABIA said win-win aspects of good practices in P&amp;Ms in Annex I Parties and implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects) should be addressed.
Chile, for AILAC, identified e2 80 9canchoring e2 80 9d as a concept encapsulated by the term e2 80 9cnational schedule.
In view of the workload to meet the Buenos Aires Plan of Action (BAPA), the US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, said COP-6 should be held early in 2001 with various intersessional activities on the run-up.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS preferred to cover only C02 gases.
AUSTRALIA noted that the Protocol is breaking new ground in international law and recommended examining other compliance models.
The G-77/China also \t\tcalled for bottom-up approaches and, opposed by the US, Canada, the EU \t\tand others, for the establishment of an expert group to address the \t\tissue.
The G-77/CHINA also called for further consideration of the GEF’s report on implementation of the Poznań strategic programme on technology transfer, particularly regarding the effectiveness of the implementation.
The EU, Switzerland, Norway and others supported \t\tlaunching a review process, while the G-77/China advocated a review 93at 94 \t\tCOP 12, as stated in Protocol Article 9.
 The EU noted that an MCP will not have the functions of the SBI and SBSTA, but should not have reduced scope.
Regarding incremental costs, AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA highlighted challenges and underscored full costs.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA urged parties to work toward agreement in these organizations.
He \t\tdescribed the issue of the Board 92s composition as 93complicated, 94 with \t\tparties exploring options that would combine regional and special group \t\t(SIDS and LDCs) representation with members from Annex 1 and non-Annex 1 \t\tparties, or would include only regional and special groups.
The EU said everyone felt the pressure to urgently make progress and establish a global, ambitious and binding post-2012 regime and, while reiterating a preference for a single legally binding instrument, reconfirmed the EU’s willingness to consider a second commitment period under the Protocol, as part of a global framework engaging all major economies.
The US bracketed language on international centers.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged for ambitious emission reduction commitments from Annex I parties and called for avoiding a gap between the first and second commitment periods.
TANZANIA noted that technology transfer and capacity building should not be left to AIJ.
BRAZIL noted that its proposal is useful, while the evolution clause is an extraneous distraction from the main purpose of reducing the emissions of the main Annex I polluters.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern with such linkage, while TUVALU and the EU urged linkage to legal matters and SWITZERLAND stressed the need for consistency with decisions regarding legal matters.
SAMOA proposed changing a sentence that stated "Many Parties" agreed that only a legally-binding instrument would meet the requirements of the BM, to "The AGBM agreed" but KUWAIT objected.
The EU said the proposed finance board would not deliver an overview of international climate finance flows, highlighting the need to split the political and operational functions.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported continuing the consolidation exercise, while noting challenges in consolidation due to divergent views on implementation.
COLOMBIA, for Costa Rica, Chile, Panama and Peru, highlighted the need to ensure: continuity to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; comparable commitments by Annex I countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol; predictability on the continuation of finance for the 2013-2020 period; and continued progress in ADP discussions.
NORWAY requested that an option for no global adaptation goal be reflected.
MEXICO stressed technology transfer, training and capacity building to enter low-carbon growth paths, as well as further research and assessment.
The EU, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Switzerland and the Russian Federation expressed preference for making use of existing channels, while Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and China supported establishing a new forum for exchanging information and facilitating dialogue.
Delegates could not agree to an EU proposal, supported by CANADA and NORWAY, that the SBI invite the GEF to submit its views on complementarity among the funds under the UNFCCC.
CHINA explained that issues covered during the AWG \t\t\tround table should not be negotiated by the AWG.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need to address the CDM 92s driving force, nature and scope.
The LDCs, supported by the US, asked that both the informal note and parties’ submissions be used.
The PHILIPPINES recommended that capacity building be 93for, 94 93by 94 and 93in 94 developing countries and said the GEF initiative was the antithesis of capacity building.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the role of national GHG inventories in a periodic review process.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, highlighted that this skill-set was not present in the CGE, and supported deleting the paragraph.
ARGENTINA said parties should identify their own capacity gaps.
PERU, \t\tfor the Andean Community, noted the Community ef bf bds participation in the \t\testablishment of an Ibero-American network and in developing a CDM \t\tportfolio.
On grouping the text, AOSIS suggested that the clusters on NAMA registry and national schedules should be combined.
 NEW ZEALAND later presented the draft results of the group, which recommend that the Secretariat further explore current consultative mechanisms and propose procedures to improve their efficiency.
INDIA, with AOSIS and the AFRICAN GROUP, called for additional resources.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a stock taking exercise and exchange of views immediately before SB-17, the EU, SAMOA, POLAND and SWITZERLAND preferred this exercise to take the form of an intersessional informal consultation, while the US, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and SAUDI ARABIA favored holding a side event.
 \t\tThe EU emphasized that the paper confirms the urgency and \t\tscale of the necessary mitigation efforts, also showing that mitigation \t\tis technically and economically feasible.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, underlined that the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol is an essential and basic element for the future of the climate change regime and that definition of new QELROs for Annex I parties is a “cornerstone” of a Cancun outcome.
Bolivia, Colombia, the US, Iran, Honduras, Chile and Norway supported the inclusion of sinks projects in the CDM.
The COOK ISLANDS underscored the need to address \t\tadaptation on a wider scale and noted the difficulties that people in \t\tvulnerable countries have in obtaining relevant insurance.
The EU, opposed by the US, questioned the need for the section on reporting on domestic enforcement.
He called on all developed countries to implement their FCCC obligations, and requested that a workshop be organized for LDCs to focus on key issues in the lead-up to COP-6.
The EU highlighted their cap on use of flexibility mechanisms, and underscored proposals to avoid double counting.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed her expectation that this session will identify options and provide full textual narratives on all PAWP agenda items.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested various criteria for individual and collective measures including volume of emissions per capita, emissions per territory and emissions per GNP taking into consideration the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility."
The US highlighted limitations with one-stop shops and supported the establishment of an international, rather than regional and sub-regional, clearinghouse.
The EU noted interlinkages with other agenda items, including submissions on strategy approaches and roadmaps.
Marcel \t\tBoisard, UN Institute for Training and Research Executive Director, \t\tcalled for urgent measures to respond to capacity-building needs, \t\tespecially for LDCs.
MICRONESIA supported limiting temperature increase to below 2°C and greenhouse gas concentrations to below 450 ppm.
Costa Rica, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, emphasized the need to reach agreement on market mechanisms and to increase investment in REDD+.
MALI stressed the importance of building capacity to implement NAPA-related activities in different countries.
On national registries, the US underscored the importance of discussions on the mechanisms for the work in this group.
CARICOM highlighted the role of youth at the community level, as well as waste management, particularly in coastal areas.
The EU favored text noting that SBI-18 had considered the workshop 92s outcomes.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, opposed by HUNGARY and CHINA, argued in favor of host-generated unilateral CDM projects.
Timor-Leste supported the AOSIS proposal that two contact groups are necessary.
With the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, he identified the need to consider compliance.
SINGAPORE suggested that agenda item 3 be adopted as proposed, while item 4 on the work plan on mitigation ambition be amended by adding “in accordance with Decision 1/CP.17.”
 The US noted that other proposals will receive consideration beyond AGBM-6.
It agrees that in addressing other elements of the LDC work programme, attention should be given to critical activities such as awareness raising and capacity building.
He requested assistance from Canada and Indonesia in consolidating text on means of implementation and financing for full implementation, and from the EU and Gabon on MRV of actions and of support.
The EU praised it as an important result, and China hoped \t\tAnnex I parties would submit sufficient information on the fulfillment \t\tof their commitments for the next review.
AUSTRALIA supported using national communications for MRV and said they could be improved, including by requiring more frequent reporting and establishing uniform indicators, in order to ensure that they are an effective way of reporting support.
NEW ZEALAND noted the value of ensuring quality data in GHG inventories and on mitigation effects through MRV systems.
The DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for GHG mitigation guidelines that are simple and equitable, taking different social and economic situations into account.
JAPAN said GHG emissions from international aviation and shipping should continue to be addressed by IMO and ICAO.
Many, including Australia, Nauru, for AOSIS, and Nepal, for the LDCs, expressed gratitude to the COP president, the people of Peru, and the ADP Co-Chairs for a successful conference.
ETHIOPIA suggested, inter alia: a global emission budget to be divided amongst all parties according to the Convention’s principles and provisions; a 1.5     c2 b0C target; and that the governing body of the new agreement define the quantity of GHG emissions that each Annex I party may emit.
 Many parties, including Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Nauru, for AOSIS, noted the need to finalize procedures of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and Tuvalu emphasized the importance of maintaining the current base year to ensure comparability of commitments in the second commitment period.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC highlighted the lack of funding for developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA lamented that their views were not reflected, highlighting the consideration of response measures along with the adverse effects of climate change.
 Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
The G-77/ CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SAMOA and BRAZIL proposed retaining the request, and urged specific reference to the Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND noted that a commitment to ambitious emission reductions requires changes to LULUCF rules and effective carbon market mechanisms.
The section on minimization of adverse impacts under Article 3.14 (adverse effects) was not agreed, with SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by JAPAN and others, suggesting that Parties "shall" rather than "are requested to" provide information.
SAUDI ARABIA, China, for the G-77/CHINA, Jamaica, for AOSIS, SWAZILAND, ARGENTINA and the GAMBIA called for new institutional arrangements to be included in the agreement.
On monitoring and evaluation, AOSIS and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, underscored the need to avoid additional reporting burdens.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), underlined that the scale of work may require parallel sessions and said that new submissions are not needed.
ARGENTINA supported regional groups of experts.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS urged for separate and short-term targets for reducing the level for CO2 emissions.
The US, the EU, New Zealand, Canada and AILAC supported a facilitative compliance mechanism, applicable to all.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted the need for cooperation between the AWGs and called for the needs of countries with economies in transition to be reflected in the text.
The EU, Norway, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand supported consideration of the item beyond SBSTA-17.
The EU said Durban should address the gap in the level of ambition, a common international accounting system and a process to deliver a new global comprehensive legally-binding framework to be completed by 2015.
GUYANA and PAPUA NEW GUINEA supported discussion on financing, highlighting the centrality of finance to success.
 \t\t\tArtur Runge-Metzger, \t\t\tEuropean Commission, discussed adequacy, feasibility and fairness as \t\t\tcross-cutting issues for the EU.
SWITZERLAND said that it originally made a proposal based on three GHGs, but favored the inclusion of all GHGs not covered by the Montreal Protocol, including HFCs, PFCs, and SF6.
The G-77/CHINA proposed text on the outcomes of the workshops on insurance and risk assessment and on related actions, which the EU and US opposed, stating that the reports were not available for consideration at SBI-18.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said a permanent forum is necessary to report, evaluate and address the specific needs and concerns of non-Annex I countries.
The EU and Japan requested the deletion of a sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize adverse effects of response measures.
INDIA proposed that caps on the use of offsets could be scaled according to Annex I countries’ circumstances, such as historical responsibility or sustainable lifestyles.
Bolivia, for ALBA, underlined the need for consideration of all parts of Article 6 (cooperative approaches) including non-market mechanisms.
The EU urged all developed countries to announce their reduction targets before the next AWG sessions in March 2009.
On the   New Zealand highlighted actual emissions as the preferable starting point, with the EU noting that the starting point has significant implications for QELROs.
The PHILIPPINES called for a mitigation goal that ensures full decarbonization by 2050.
ALGERIA, with Grenada, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY, said the new agreement should be based on all the elements identified in Durban, calling for loss and damage as a separate element of the agreement.
\t\tQATAR, for the G-77/China, noted the impacts of recent climate-related \t\tdisasters on developing countries, and called for renewed commitment by \t\tthe international community.
COSTA RICA read out a joint submission by Colombia, for AILAC, Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, and Switzerland on the need for corresponding adjustments in connection with transfers of mitigation outcomes and emission reductions under Article 6.
The group also agreed to a proposal from SAMOA reproducing a paragraph from the CDM text on the open attendance of the committee meetings, with the addition that attendance also be open to "accredited stakeholders."
Reporting on intersessional meetings, NORWAY highlighted the second meeting of the UN High-Level Advisory Group on Climate Change Financing from 12-13 July in New York.
The US, Japan and Canada preferred using existing committees and networks to improve access to non-English language literature rather than establishing new ones, while the Republic of Korea opposed limiting such committees to those currently in existence.
Referencing G-20 talks on green economic recovery, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA underscored that mitigation can be an economic opportunity.
BRAZIL suggested that parties identify areas of duplication through open-ended informal discussions.
Swaziland, supported by The Gambia, noted the draft text “provides a landing ground and marks the beginning of defining capacity building.” The EU understood the need to strengthen capacity-building institutions under the Convention as “our common vision” and hoped for the establishment of a capacity-building committee as an outcome of COP 21.
JAPAN proposed removing references to monitoring and evaluation of adaptation.
Several parties, including the EU and the G-77/China, were \t\tinitially open to the proposal.
INDONESIA argued in favor of requiring 70% of emissions reductions through domestic action, with the possibility of this being reduced under certain conditions.
The G-77/China proposed bracketing reference to sub-paragraphs 1 and b. Venezuela, opposed by the US and Canada, included reference to Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms).
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, the need to: work towards increasing the level of ambition; agree on global peaking of emissions; agree on mid-term finance; and clarify the application of the principles and provisions of the Convention.
She endorsed the EU proposal for three categories, with at least a small list of mandatory, legally-binding measures.
Several parties, including the EU and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, requested information on the performance reviews of the interim secretariat and trustee servicing the AF, and on the annual report by the Adaptation Fund Board (AFB).
The EU proposed considering e2 80 9chigher-level baskets e2 80 9d in order to reduce their number, namely: establishment and purpose; mandate, scope and structure; and modalities of the arrangements.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for the AWG-LCA to ensure a fair outcome on adaptation financing.
The EU recalled that differences are already addressed by differences in quantified emission reductions and was reluctant to give exceptions for single projects.
On global warming potentials (GWPs), CANADA noted the need for proven methodologies, stating that global temperature potentials (GTPs) are not yet proven.
AOSIS elaborated on their submission, stressing that the work programme on standards and approaches must ensure verified mitigation outcomes and avoid double counting.
During COP/MOP 92s final days, general \t\tagreement was reached, with a compromise agreement on a second review in \t\t2008, as the EU wanted, and including explicit reference to the review \t\tnot leading to new commitments, as the G-77/China preferred.
The status of the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova (CACAM), regarding their status under the UNFCCC was addressed in the SBI Plenary on Friday, 6 June, and Friday, 13 June.
GEORGIA and AZERBAIJAN stressed continuing GEF support.
Stressing that the AWG-KP is a separate process, TUVALU, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ANGOLA, SINGAPORE, CHILE and many other non-Annex I countries emphasized that the Protocol’s mechanisms should not be discussed under the AWG-LCA.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA drew attention to their proposal for a COP/MOP decision supporting the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the US, said that UNFCCC issues should take priority over Protocol issues.
AUSTRALIA opposed a spin-off group, pointing to Decision 2/CP.17, which “consolidates all progressive discussions related to response measures under the Convention.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed that parties are working to complete and not consolidate work, and that he does not see a mandate for consolidation.
The meeting 92s agenda (FCCC/SBI/2006/12 and Add.1) was adopted, with the item on SIDS held in abeyance.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed the need to include all elements of party submissions in revised documents, and underscored that the group would only accept an omnibus decision with “all items in an integrated structure.”
On lessons from other areas of work under the Convention, Peru, for AILAC, highlighted REDD+ and noted that REDD+ guidelines will not be superseded by modalities, procedures and guidelines of the transparency framework.
AOSIS urged the implementation of NAPAs immediately \t\tfollowing their completion.
JAPAN said MRV of support should be in the agreement, but called for clarity in the current language.
The CLIMATE ALLIANCE stressed the need to include local and regional government P&amp;Ms in national communications.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concerns over a lack of balance in progress, including limited progress on finance, and unresolved challenges in accessing Global Environment Facility resources.
The US outlined its proposal for a data-reporting format, noting that it, inter alia: does not specify dates for historical data; excludes non-CO2 gases on the grounds that they might be an unnecessary complication; and includes land area.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the G-77/China had not had enough time to consider the text fully.
On INDCs, the US, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS and opposed by the LDCs, proposed a new paragraph inviting parties to communicate their INDCs well in advance of COP 21, and those willing to do so by the first quarter of 2015.
BANGLADESH emphasized the need for regional capacity-building activities.
  Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that the negotiations have not reflected the sense of urgency about climate change and called for progress on the AWG-KP and developed country commitments.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, underscored the importance of converting pledges into quantified commitments, including use of a single base year.
On 17 May, the final communiqu e9 of the G8 meeting in Birmingham, UK, welcomed the recent signature of the Protocol by some G8 countries and confirmed the intention of the rest to sign it within the next year.
ZIMBABWE, supported by BRAZIL, noted that a procedure of initial nominations of experts was a constructive use of time.
The EU and AUSTRALIA stressed accelerating submission of initial communications, assisted by GEF.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed his group’s concerns about “bifurcated structures” in the text on NDCs and the transparency framework, and opposed including loss and damage in the text on the transparency framework.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, stated that, for legally-binding provisions, the committee should focus on compliance and otherwise on facilitating actions.
IRAN noted that the definition of technology transfer in the report fails to include know-how.
Many delegations noted similarities between the two texts, and agreed to follow the sequencing of paragraphs in the G-77/CHINA proposal as a basis for discussions.
COLOMBIA noted the possible tendency to exaggerate baselines, and urged provision for the de-certification of Operational Entities.
The EU stressed the need to be able to build on the \t\t\tideas identified during the workshops, and INDIA called for a fresh \t\t\tapproach.
AOSIS suggested holding the discussions back-to-back with COP-5.
Responding to President Pronk 92s proposal, the G-77/CHINA noted that developing countries have the highest stakes in these negotiations, and that the total package, as in the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, would need to be reflected.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, called for maintaining the delicate balance of the Paris Agreement and accelerating progress on the work programme, and looked forward to additional information on a possible additional session in 2018.
The UK, supported by the US, Belgium and Saint Lucia, but opposed by the Russian Federation, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia and Brazil, proposed adding a statement that e2 80 9cthe current rate of ocean acidification is unprecedented in the last 65 million years.
• look forward to the operationalization, no later than SBI 39, of the provision of support to the LDCs for the national adaptation plan process under the LDC Fund;
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and EGYPT noted that issues are advancing at unequal speed, which may lead to an unbalanced process.
Noting the lack of effort on the part of other parties to compromise, the G-77/CHINA, requested to go back to last week’s text.
The PHILIPPINES encouraged review of the Adaptation Fund, interim institutional arrangements and all related matters under the Convention and the Protocol.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed progress in spin-off groups is well below expectations.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with China, for the LMDCs, and others, opposed by the EU and others, favored e2 80 9cby the first quarter of 2015 and endeavor to do so as soon as possible thereafter.
CHINA disagreed, saying that the review is independent of the outcome in Kyoto and noting the Article 4.2(d) deadline of December 1998.
The UK said the screening process should simply be an organizational stage to ensure that the relevant branch receives the case.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, said work should progress on the full scope of the mandate without adding new issues, and said differentiation should be rooted in concrete, not ideological, terms.
Opposed by the US, the EU then proposed two new options, which request Parties to decide on only one instead of two indicative scales.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and Norway, stressed the need for text supporting predictable and adequate funding levels.
MEXICO and the LMDCs suggested parties send their insertions by email, with the LMDCs proposing these be displayed quickly on screen to address parties’ anxiety about what is being inserted, while avoiding lengthy explanations.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested that work on the NWP and reform of the CDM could be completed at this meeting.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 notes the implementation, by five LDCs of at least one of their National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs) projects, the continued support from the LDCs Fund (LDCF) to the completion, by 50 countries of their NAPAs, and the access by 49 countries to US$905.63 million for 161 projects;
The EU supported the text for adoption, including on: long-term finance, understanding the underlying assumptions of pledges and the Standing Committee, but expressed disappointment that language on ambition gap, accounting and biennial reporting guidelines had been weakened.
MALI supported prioritizing the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
TIMOR LESTE said developed countries should commit to provision of MOI to LDCs.
KUWAIT opposed the imposition of any additional obligations on developing countries.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, CANADA, MALAYSIA, AOSIS, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA, but opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested holding a workshop on the implications of the TAR for the work of the SBSTA.
OPEC General Secretary Alvaro Calder f3n remarked that renewable technologies are in their infancy and that technological advances are making oil and gas "cleaner fuels."
The PHILIPPINES said the list of major IPCC findings should include adverse effects of climate change, including adaptation and mitigation.
The EU and \t\tNorway proposed that further analytical work be carried out while \t\tadvancing the AWG’s work programme.
 The EU stated that its protocol proposal includes differing timetables for national communications by Annex I and non-Annex I Parties and progressive enhancement of commitments.
Discussions focused on the facilitation of country-driven NAPs; streamlining the LDC Fund to support the NAP process; the use of national and regional centers and networks; and sharing of best practices in adaptation.
The EU asked for additional time to complete its technical work in producing draft appendices.
INDIA and BRAZIL called for capturing the full scope of “support.” The US suggested spelling out the capacity-building aspect.
MEXICO proposed that the Secretariat prepare a technical paper providing an overview of adaptation activities.
The EU supported basing definitions on those agreed for Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4 (LULUCF).
Costa Rica, for AILAC, said although we took first steps in defining the Paris Agreement rulebook we must accelerate our work to meet the urgency of the global challenge of climate change.
CANADA, the US, the EU and SWITZERLAND supported the concept whereby the system applies to all commitments.
The Chair proposed that the US, Ghana, Indonesia, Canada, Egypt and the EU form a small group to try and resolve the issues.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), underlined that a technical mode of discussions is a fundamental underpinning to the text-based discussions in 2018.
AUSTRALIA proposed establishing a Committee of the Whole (COW), chaired by a facilitator vested with the authority by President Szyszko.
The US and CANADA presented a proposal for the phase-in of forest management under Article 3.4 (additional activities), stressing that it contained incentives to implement additional sequestration activities.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that parties had agreed on a two-track, party-driven, transparent negotiating process and were not ready to “rubber stamp text coming out of the blue.” Ecuador drew attention to “serious procedural problems,” highlighting lack of transparency and inclusiveness.
Despite a cautious start, towards the end of INC-11 there was considerable vocal support for a mechanism to begin negotiations on the AOSIS draft protocol, but little evidence that the proponents of the protocol could achieve consensus to initiate these negotiations.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed language on monitoring of emissions of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 and 17.
BANGLADESH supported R&amp;D to identify the most cost-effective technologies and called for an IPR waiver, particularly for LDCs.
The EU asked for an equal number because this Convention\'s structure is distinct from other conventions and linked to commitments.
The proposed consolidation of options 1 and 7 in this paragraph was opposed by CHINA, who noted the options contain separate ideas, with differentiation based on type of contribution on the one hand, and based on classification of countries on the other.
The US identified convergence on, inter alia, the need for work on baselines and share of proceeds, and the EU highlighted monitoring, verification, certification and validation.
The US indicated that efforts to push capital to developing countries will not be useful without appropriate policies and regulatory frameworks.
NEPAL and CANADA advocated using a range of technologies.
NORWAY supported the Netherlands and commented that the IPCC was the key body for giving technical and scientific advice.
 The Chair said he will register the intention of WEOG and the Asian Group for the different posts, but the paragraph will say that the Asian Group and GRULAC did not present a candidate at this stage and they are requested to submit nominees by 18 April 1996.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for balanced consideration of financing for mitigation and adaptation.
The EU distributed draft conclusions requesting parties to provide textual proposals to be presented with 1 August submissions and requesting the Secretariat to prepare a synthesis according to specific elements.
CHINA requested an additional sentence referring to the importance of paper document distribution to developing countries, as many of them lack Internet connections.
He summarized the draft text, which includes, inter alia: facilitation of country-driven NAPs; streamlining the LDC Fund to support the NAP process; the use of national and regional centers and networks; and sharing of best practices in adaptation.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for: a separate section on loss and damage; balanced treatment of mitigation and adaptation; and enshrining existing institutions.
Opposing the establishment of a spin-off group on adaptation, Switzerland, Norway, the EU and other developed countries pointed to progress and current work under other bodies on, inter alia, the Adaptation Committee, and loss and damage.
The EU then requested the introduction of several brackets.
On content, BRAZIL highlighted that the Cancun Agreements provide clear guidance on the core elements to be addressed, namely updates of national GHG inventories, including a national inventory report and information on mitigation actions, needs, and support received.
BURUNDI noted a lack of coordination among capacity-building relevant bodies under the Convention.
CHINA said that a tangible mechanism should be established to kick off action on technology.
AILAC envisioned CBDR and respective capabilities (CBDRRC) and developed country parties and countries “willing to do so” providing support.
The US supported allowing the NGO representative to speak.
UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer said Copenhagen should result in: an agreement on implementation of mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology, reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries (REDD) and capacity building actions; ambitious emission reductions commitments and “start-up finance” of around US$10 billion per year; and a shared vision on long-term cooperative action.
In opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for developed countries to put forward ambitious quantified emission reduction commitments under the AWG-KP and lamented that current pledges are insufficient.
CANADA, the US and the EU said budget decisions taken while the UNFCCC is in a "transition period" could set a precedent for future decisions, and, with AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, requested a breakdown of costs associated with the three options in the Chair 92s paper.
EL SALVADOR emphasized that the communications and global stocktake should guard against backsliding and be guided by science and equity.
The EU welcomed significant progress since the last report.
AUSTRALIA suggested viewing the reference to schedules in conjunction with relevant discussions in the contact groups on overarching mitigation and finance.
CHINA underscored the fundamental responsibility of Annex I parties to reduce their emissions in aggregate by 40-45% by 2020 and said that if parties disagreed with this level of responsibility they should define what they felt their collective responsibility was.
 SWITZERLAND, supported by MALI, called for a dynamic approach and proposed three categories of commitment.
NIGERIA expressed concern with the lack of balance in the text, emphasizing that it should not be used as a basis for negotiations but rather as a background document.
QATAR identified the \t\tneed for discussions concerning the impact of response measures on \t\tnon-Annex I countries, the linking of sustainable development goals with \t\tclimate change objectives and moving from coal to cleaner fossil fuels.
Joint Contact Group on Mechanisms: The G-77/CHINA introduced its position paper on the clean development mechanism (CDM), highlighting the CDM’s role in assisting developing countries in achieving sustainable development and developed countries in complying with their QELROs.
The EU, Canada, Australia, Japan, the US, AOSIS, and New Zealand noted that while the text did not serve all their interests, they supported its use as the basis for negotiation.
CANADA said the SCCF should address both adaptation and mitigation measures, and proposed poverty reduction, sustainable development and good governance as guiding principles.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA and the GAMBIA, said the absence of information on the effect of policies and measures should not be an obstacle to meeting the needs of the truly vulnerable.
 NIGERIA: Dan L. Etete, Minister of Petroleum, stated that the FCCC cannot use the SAR as a basis for action.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for increased contributions to the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) and expressed concern with the time taken from project conception to the delivery of funds.
The EU reiterated that progress on these issues is a key part of the Durban package and suggested that text for a decision focus on the same areas identified for developed countries’ mitigation issues.
CHINA said the G-77/China paper reflects the serious effort made to facilitate a decision.
The US also noted that sound information is not available for controlling greenhouse gases not listed in the proposed Annex C and suggested elaborating on P&amp;Ms under the section on reporting.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested the INDCs e2 80 99 adaptation component enhance efforts to achieve best-value outcomes through early and integrated planning, and action at all levels.
 \t\tSWITZERLAND, with HUNGARY, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, SPAIN and KENYA, and \t\topposed by CHINA, stressed the need for flexibility in organizing the \t\tIPCC Bureau and opposed reference to Annex C, which lists the \t\tcomposition of the IPCC Bureau and Task Force Bureau, in the definition \t\tof the IPCC Bureau.
NORWAY stressed sustainable production and consumption patterns and called on Parties to support lifestyle changes.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said developing countries showed their full commitment towards making progress in Panama through their positive participation in all working groups and across all subjects.
CHILE \t\temphasized the need to safeguard the environmental integrity of CDM \t\tprojects, and, with others, to provide sufficient resources to the EB.
Disagreement also persisted on bracketed text supported by BRAZIL on extending the eligibility criteria for afforestation/reforestation project activities and bracketed text supported by SAUDI ARABIA on the inclusion of CCS under the CDM.
SWEDEN reminded delegates that decisions on guidance to the GEF clearly state that national communications will be financed.
With EGYPT, ARGENTINA, SRI LANKA and the AFRICAN GROUP, he said funding should come from public sources, be additional to official development assistance, and be subject to MRV.
An annex to the EU proposal establishes guidelines for reporting on JI activities.
Opposing this proposal, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the different status of the information contained in the document and the mathematical calculation provided by the Secretariat.
BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA, SINGAPORE, SUDAN and BRAZIL opposed “broader discussions.” AUSTRALIA emphasized that no single group of countries is able to deliver the level of ambition necessary to address climate change and that if ambitions were to be hardened down to specific numbers, a broader discussion would be the next step.
AUSTRALIA called for the inclusion of performance indicators.
On the actions to be taken if calculations raise a Party 92s "required" level of commitment period reserve above the Party 92s holdings of ERUs, CERs and AAUs, AUSTRALIA and CANADA supported reference to "recommended" level.
China requested that the Secretariat develop a list of technology transferable free of charge, but the EU, the UK, the US, Russia, Germany and Australia objected, stating that they did not disagree with the idea but with the timing.
MEXICO highlighted the workshop to be held to explore means to enhance observer participation, suggesting the creation of a new government constituency for parliamentarians and legislators.
AOSIS proposed an adaptation framework, containing mechanisms on financial resources and on building resilience and adapting to the impacts of climate change.
ARGENTINA, with Brazil, South Africa, Uruguay and Bolivia, stressed the need to address the proposal separately from the options contained in the facilitator’s note.
CHINA and INDIA called for deleting text suggesting that e2 80 9cparties mobilize and provide financial resources in a manner which is capable of adapting dynamically to changing realities and future developments and needs.
The EU urged building on the already developed MRV system, noting that a system to provide a good understanding of success stories to help close the mitigation gap has not yet been created.
 On this issue (FCCC/SBSTA/2013/MISC.11, Add.1 and MISC.16) Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, cautioned against a fragmented and decentralized approach.
On insurance, JAMAICA said governments will have to play a lead role and should have insurance coverage in order to attract inward investment.
BRAZIL said its GHG reductions are mainly due to decreasing deforestation rates in the Brazilian biomes, especially the Amazon.
The PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, MEXICO, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND called for discussion on the use of the words “ensure” and “promote” throughout the text.
Norway, Denmark, the UK, Germany, Canada and many others agreed to the authors e2 80 99 proposal, but Saudi Arabia disagreed.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted the need to move to negotiating mode and underlined Switzerland’s proposal on financing.
GHANA said Chapter I should include institutional aspects of an adaptation framework.
The panel consisted of delegates representing Bolivia, Canada, Japan, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the UK.
The US and Australia said countries could demonstrate progress through institutional and legal steps taken to achieve Protocol Article 3.1 commitments, while Japan suggested the assessment be based on national communications.
The US stated that there could be overlap between annual reviews, since the process might take more than a year.
INDIA highlighted developing countries 92 \t\tneed to increase their energy use and stressed economic development as \t\tthe best form of adaptation.
AOSIS opposed a review of the ADP workplan that would allow for its curtailment in 2017.
MOROCCO, for the G-77/CHINA, said adaptation and mitigation measures will be unsuccessful if developed countries ignore the concerns and situation of vulnerable States.
India warned against deriving headline statements from medium confidence levels, while the EU explained that the reason for the medium confidence level relates to the incomplete approaches adopted by old studies.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized that the text should focus on implementation on the ground.
MALAWI also supported a quantitative commitment.
The G-77/CHINA stated that afforestation and reforestation project activities should remain eligible, and that means to enhance implementation of these activities should be addressed.
Saying parties had never before been so close to delivering an ambitious outcome, Guatemala, for AILAC, called for moving beyond national positions to a “solution cognizant of our collective interest.”
HONDURAS, supported by several Latin American countries, called for expeditious creation of the CDM, and proposed an "interim phase approach" to develop guidelines and rules.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern that some of its comments relating to compliance and participation were not adequately reflected in this revised text.
Both amendments were eventually accepted after several clarifications sought by SAUDI ARABIA.
SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern that cutting and pasting elements of the Protocol into a new agreement would open issues for renegotiation and stressed that there is no consensus on merging the negotiating tracks into a single agreement.
• requests SBI 41 to consider the progress made in implementing the remaining elements of the LDC work programme, including the updating and implementation of NAPAs.
On procedural matters, CANADA said discussions under the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP would eventually need to be brought together.
In the context of private sector funding, INDIA and CHINA drew attention to double counting arising from emission reductions achieved through offset mechanisms.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the key role of governments in ensuring the full implementation of the Convention and stated that proposals should reflect this responsibility.
Many countries welcomed the initial GCF resource mobilization, with some, including the EU, GERMANY, SPAIN and FINLAND, describing their contributions to various climate-related funds.
e2 80 9d The LMDCs favored the terms e2 80 9ccommitments e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cactions e2 80 9d and, with SOUTH AFRICA and others, stressed the need for differentiation.
The US said \t\tthat an identification of the audience for actions would help to better \t\tdefine the modalities.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), called for the agreement to establish, inter alia, medium- and long-term emission reduction pathways capable of delivering less than 1.5 c2 b0C of warming.
The US said their domestic system limits consideration of levies and taxes.
He said the CDM should continue and be improved, noting the EU Emissions Trading Scheme will accept certain credits beyond 2012.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CANADA, bracketed reference to the CDM Reference Manual.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested that the decision on including sinks be deferred for possible inclusion in the next commitment period.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, stressed that a second commitment period under the AWG-KP is “fundamental,” reiterating that efforts to impede agreement will be detrimental to developing countries.
In response to concerns expressed by MALAYSIA and IRAN, the Chair suggested that MCP meetings occur in conjunction with COP and subsidiary body meetings.
The US, supported by Japan, Australia and Canada, introduced draft language for a decision on Joint Implementation (JI) and an appendix on criteria.
AUSTRALIA and the EU highlighted positive news reports on plans for national mitigation actions in developing countries and encouraged them to spell out their goals.
The EU and others suggested exploring differentiated responsibilities among developing countries and definitions of “developed” and “developing” countries.
Funding for the workshop was provided by the Governments of Spain, Switzerland, the US and APN.
On the registry, AUSTRALIA supported a simple and accessible web platform, but stressed that it should not replace the need to clarify the pledges.
 \t\tPalau, for AOSIS, cited lack of funding for adaptation as a major \t\tfailure of the Convention and proposed a new fund based on the “polluter \t\tpays principle” to link emissions to Annex I countries’ funding \t\tcommitments.
INDIA encouraged the CDM Executive Board to develop country and regionally specific baselines.
On taking stock of progress made by the subsidiary and constituted bodies, AILAC, the AFRICAN GROUP, the EU and the US called for beginning this stocktaking at COP 22.
 This item was taken up in informal consultations co-facilitated by Xiang Gao (China) and Andrew Rakestraw (US).
The EU said opportunities to increase efficiency and sustainability through sectoral approaches should not be ignored, and said the shipping and aviation sectors should be included in a global agreement.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported concise and operationally-oriented language on a long-term goal.
SWITZERLAND noted that longer periods encourage investment.
The UK said that government employees often only remain in their posts for a short time and highlighted the importance of maintaining institutional memory.
CHINA and several other developing countries stated that agreement at The Hague was contingent on "developing country" issues receiving their due recognition.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the conclusion allowing Parties to submit views on the reporting format by September, noting this would be onerous for both developing countries and the Secretariat.
JAPAN, the US, AUSTRALIA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, SOUTH AFRICA, the COOK ISLANDS and PANAMA supported the work of the IMO and ICAO to reduce emissions.
CANADA supported a \t\tvulnerability approach to inform adaptation decision making.
The US voiced concern over the commercial connotation of "research and development."
The EU also supported not holding consultations on legal matters bilaterally and suggested establishing a spin-off group for this.
The US highlighted concerns regarding dates in the draft decision.
In the final SBI Plenary on Friday, 1 November, the G-77/ China, opposed by the EU, Norway, Japan and Canada, attempted to re-open the timeframe for providing guidance on the Special Climate Change Fund, deleting laudatory language on the third GEF replenishment and a request for an expert group.
The EU clarified that “evolving responsibilities and capabilities” captures the growth in the levels of prosperity and GHG emissions of developing countries, noting that some are currently more prosperous than some EU member states.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that the national communications of Annex I Parties include an evaluation of the extent to which individual CDM projects have assisted non-Annex I Parties to achieve sustainable development.
BANGLADESH called for financing for risk reduction.
The EU said decision 1/CP.21 (Paris outcome) already contains all the necessary modalities.
 SAUDI ARABIA said delegates need to concentrate on substance and leave structure, features, and comparison of a protocol to other instruments until later.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for consultations to be concluded during the current session in Bonn.
 Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
The UK noted that domestic actions must be the main means of achieving reductions and said the EU would propose to limit the amount of emissions reductions that can be achieved through flexible mechanisms.
THAILAND and CHINA objected, noting that Article 4.5 specifically refers to Annex II Parties and not other institutions.
BHUTAN expressed concern that the LDC Fund will be inaccessible to most LDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed submissions at this stage and suggested working in a contact group or informal sessions.
In the \t\tensuing discussion, some participants expressed concern regarding the \t\tcomparability of estimated mitigation potentials from the US \t\tagricultural sector with other sectors, and the effects of climate \t\timpacts on mitigation potentials.
The US, supported by Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands, Japan, Germany and Belgium, proposed alternative language encouraging the Secretariat and the TSUs to engage in dialogue on respective roles and responsibilities and to periodically report on this matter to the Panel.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed addressing the issue through a procedural annex.
Urging collaborative efforts, he noted the EU’s offer to increase the reduction target to 30% and underscored increasing ambition as an opportunity in terms of energy security, innovation, growth, jobs and health benefits.
The EU underlined that textual proposals should be “bridging,” which she said implies a prior discussion among parties with varying views.
Underscoring the importance of the wider context, the EU, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND called for a factual and balanced representation of the views presented at the workshop.
The US said discussions should be captured in a Chair’s text, and the outcomes should reflect the rapid evolution of the world economy since 1992.
In describing gaps and barriers, Numa cited the lack of baseline data as a barrier and said scenario-based approaches do not work for SIDS.
The Climate Action Network presented an NGO evaluation of 20 OECD countries" plans, noting that although procedural implementation is moving forward, more needs to be done substantively.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to move to textual discussions but urged balance among mitigation, adaptation and MOI, avoiding reinterpretation of the Paris Agreement and maintaining differentiation.Iran, for the LMDCs, expressed concern that mitigation items are advancing faster than those on adaptation and MOI.
 PORTUGAL: Elisa Ferreira, Minister of the Environment and Natural Resources, said this Conference is the moment to confirm agreements and to reaffirm the political will to negotiate practical action.
The EU stated that a shared vision includes avoiding warming of more than 2ºC, global emission reductions of at least 50% by 2050 and peaking of emissions by 2020.
CHINA stressed that some parties might not be comfortable combining contradictory concepts into single paragraphs.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION pointed out that their Copenhagen Accord pledge is not a second commitment period pledge.
JAPAN and CANADA supported flexibility and said definitions used should be clearly and transparently reported.
NEW ZEALAND suggested a workshop on sectoral approaches to report to both AWGs, and JAPAN noted that sectoral approaches were useful in bridging the AWGs.
NAURU suggested having a basic commitment for all parties to provide sources for domestic action.
The US, supported by Norway, preferred referring specifically to acidity, while Norway proposed putting the technical text in a footnote, noting, with Germany, the Netherlands and the UK, the need to show that a 0.1 pH decrease is significant.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, recalled that developing countries had fought for Decision 13 in Berlin, but noted that the whole process was moving too slowly.
  The US cautioned against including material that has not been assessed.
The US, supported by the UK, asked whether it was possible to have a single submission for inventory and communication reporting.
MEXICO, the PHILIPPINES and others said that relevant contextual elements need to be defined.
The EU noted that a more determined effort will be needed to \t\treach agreement at COP 11, and that in the interim the EU will work with \t\tthe GEF to ensure that its existing funding commitments are properly \t\timplemented.
The US stressed it would be difficult to move forward on other issues without resolving this subject matter.
INDIA, supported by CHINA, explained that MRV in developing countries only applies to mitigation actions that are internationally enabled.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said it wished to host a Rio+20 conference in 2012.
Parties approved the proposed amendment that Annex I Parties with EIT may phase in good practice guidance "two years" rather than one year later than other Annex I Parties.
The EU highlighted three aims for the second week of COP 23: progress on all agenda items, including mitigation; focus on mandated items of the Paris Agreement work programme; and maintenance of the spirit and balance achieved in the Agreement.
CANADA said their legal commitment would need to be consistent with the Copenhagen Accord, which uses a base year of 2005.
AUSTRALIA called for nationally appropriate binding commitments by all countries, and highlighted untapped potential in the LULUCF sector.
South Africa, supported by AILAC, emphasized that transparency is no substitute for legal force.
INDIA suggested taking note of text that parties consider applicable to all elements.
 DENMARK stated that the IPCC reports recognize the technical capacity for lowering emissions, such as high-efficiency power plants.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), suggested restructuring the draft negotiating text in accordance with the Bali Action Plan (BAP) and emphasized the need for a separate chapter on finance.
Preferring option 2, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, said the Co-Chairs’ informal document could further progress towards the development of draft outcomes of text.
 \t\t\tAntigua and \t\t\tBarbuda, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for the development and \t\t\tdeployment of adaptation technologies, and capacity building and \t\t\ttraining.
 \t\tThe US said a future agreement should include a long-term global \t\temissions goal and national plans with measurable mid-term goals.
A developing country group proposed: a mechanism for loss and damage; support for NAPAs for LDCs, SIDS and other interested parties; and support for national institutional arrangements.
The MEF was launched by the US President Obama in March 2009 to facilitate dialogue among major developed and developing economies and generate political leadership needed to achieve a successful outcome in Copenhagen.
In his opening statement, Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), called for specific proposals on the scale of financing, lamenting that the emphasis had been on shifting financing responsibilities from developed countries to the private sector and developing countries.
CHINA, supported by TOGO and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, said the decision recognized the need for adequate and additional financial resources for inventories, an enormous task for some developing countries.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA urged collaboration between the GCF and SCF, and noted the role of the private sector in mobilizing finance.
GUYANA supported using the present financial mechanism.
INDONESIA highlighted the need to understand opportunities and costs to catalyze action at the national level and how actions should be allocated among parties.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America (ALBA), said the Paris Agreement and its implementation should be governed by the principles and objectives of the Convention, urging not to reframe CBDR-RC.
GERMANY provided an update of progress on the conference building.
In its \t\tproposal, the EU suggested a submission cycle of around 5 years, and \t\temphasized continuity.
At JAPAN’s request, parties moved a paragraph, reiterating concern for the difficult market situation faced by JI participants, out of the operational section.
SWITZERLAND and \t\tothers said text should not prejudge COP/MOP decisions, particularly on \t\tpost-2012 issues.
The US highlighted the goal of limiting temperature increase to 2°C, which may be strengthened by 2015.
SWITZERLAND cautioned that some issues, like peaking of global emissions, do not allow for further postponement and said a new process should be launched to negotiate a new comprehensive protocol.
He added the concept of "compliance reserve" and, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported loss of access to mechanisms.
The US added "specific" needs and concerns.
Stating that this is a complicated process, JAPAN called on ICAO and IMO to provide necessary information to help identify possible solutions.
ARGENTINA regretted that the new text does not reflect parties’ views on poverty eradication issues.
INDONESIA and the GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT CENTRE pointed to the role of peatlands in the carbon cycle, and NEPAL stressed community forestry.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said that work on issues needing further consideration should start immediately.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), noted that vulnerable countries are “leading the way to put the Paris Agreement into action.”
The US, with JAPAN, stressed the importance of due process in the enforcement procedure.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the importance of including the concept of appeal.
BENIN requested facilitation of conference attendance from Africa.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, presented decision text establishing a cooperative mechanism to minimize the adverse impacts of response measures.
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the early closure of SBI and SBSTA in Cancún to focus on the AWG-LCA, AWG-KP, COP and COP/MOP.
He noted that the EU has adopted a common position and explained that a greenhouse gas emission reduction of 30% for Luxembourg and 25% for Germany, could be offset by Portugal’s and Greece’s respective greenhouse gas emission increase of 30% and 40%, which account for differences in starting points.
On  , the G-77/China and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for a shared vision for all the building blocks.
SWITZERLAND indicated that attributions could be helpful, and called for identifying areas in the text where similarities can be found.
 \t\tOn the process, INDIA said the co-facilitators 92 report \t\tshould be a compilation of views rather than a reflection of their sense \t\tof the discussions.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for an emphasis on adaptation planning and practices, and proposed a work programme on implementing adaptation activities and an ad hoc technical group on adaptation, with fixed terms of reference, a finite lifespan and fixed costs.
  The Secretariat introduced twelve proposed Protocol amendments (FCCC/KP/CMP/2009/2-13), which had been received from: Australia; Belarus; Bolivia for several countries; Colombia; Japan; the EU; New Zealand; Papua New Guinea; the Philippines; China for several non-Annex I countries; and two from Tuvalu.
SWITZERLAND said options must be explored before the ambition for COP 18 is stated.
 GHANA said the FCCC is “a matter of life and death,” and noted the need for the Declaration.
The US proposed taking the issue up next year.
PARAGUAY called for a global agreement based on IPCC findings, with all elements being binding, and for any reference to special vulnerability to include landlocked countries.
The EU and \t\tEnvironmental Integrity Group supported the agenda without amendments, \t\twhile the Africa Group and AOSIS supported adding an item on capacity \t\tbuilding.
The EU and CANADA stressed that developed countries are on track to reach the US$100 billion by 2020 finance goal.
In Nairobi, observers will be watching for shifts in \t\tthe US position in the discussions on the AWG, the Article 9 review and \t\tthe Dialogue session.
CHINA noted that emissions trading is illegal until the COP defines relevant rules, principles, and guidelines.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need to channel the means of implementation into the institutional framework created at COP 16 in Cancun, highlighting provision of finance as a priority and observing that attracting private sector funding for adaptation has been difficult.
The US noted that if only the EU and the US were to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050, such actions would still result in 630 ppm, and stressed the need for additional efforts and consideration of the financial component.
Chair Sach suggested reflecting the US 92 concern in the SBI-20 \t\tproceedings, rather than in the conclusions.
MALAWI, UGANDA, the NETHERLANDS, SPAIN, PERU and others underscored the need to produce the Synthesis Report by UNFCCC COP-13 in 2007.
Assistance was requested for: finance and know-how (MOROCCO); technical needs (BURKINA FASO); longer-term implementation (the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, ARGENTINA); vulnerability (ARGENTINA); emission mitigation in other sectors and formulation of implementation programs (URUGUAY, ARGENTINA); and second national communications (SENEGAL, MEXICO).
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA said the title should not be amended until consideration of the content had been completed.
CHINA, BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and NICARAGUA expressed support for adopting the agenda as proposed.
The EU responded by offering to \t\t\thost a workshop in Brussels on this.
The EU said this workshop had helped parties understand one \t\tanother better.
Parties adopted the agenda (FCCC/SBSTA/2006/6), with the item on SIDS held in abeyance pending consultations under COP 12.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said broader participation can only be effective if developed countries demonstrate leadership.
NORWAY said the new agreement must: be effective, fair, realistic, flexible and science-based, and include mitigation commitments relative to responsibilities and capabilities.
 \t\tThe REPUBLIC of KOREA proposed holding a review every three years.
A request from countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM) on their status under the UNFCCC was forwarded to SB-19.
AOSIS cautioned against progressing with draft decisions during the inter-sessional meeting/workshop.
FRANCE suggested that AR4 SYR should review whether questions from TAR SYR have been answered.
e2 80 9d TUVALU suggested, and parties agreed to, establishing a Friends of the Chair group to reach agreement on the way forward.
On paragraph 125 on the provision of MOI support to developing countries, parties were unable to agree on a proposal by the G-77/CHINA to delete option 2 stating e2 80 9cdeveloped country parties to provide e2 80 9d in favor of option 3 stating e2 80 9cdeveloped country parties shall provide.
NORWAY opposed further commitments for developing countries, calling on Annex I countries to advance the implementation of existing commitments on technology transfer and financial assistance.
CHILE identified the need to bring all countries together in a joint effort to agree on mid- and long-term targets, and highlighted that NAMAs should be voluntary and supported by finance and technology.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed, inter alia: accelerating work under the SBI through 2020; implementing the NAP process and expanding the LEG mandate; finalizing nominations for the Executive Committee of the Warsaw Mechanism for Loss and Damage by the end of SB 42; and establishing an international institutional arrangement for capacity building.
The EU, US and CANADA stated that draft conclusions are without prejudice to whether there are one or two decisions.
 \t\tOn content, JAPAN highlighted forms of commitments for all major \t\temitters.
COLOMBIA proposed generating funds from the auctioning of AAUs and from an 8% levy on emissions trading and joint implementation.
They asked if the nominations were still open, and added that they had asked for OPEC country representation on the Bureau.
CHINA urged careful consideration of the structure of Decision 1/CP.17.
ZIMBABWE, SAMOA and JAMAICA supported a specific recommendation on insurance.
The EU highlighted the need to focus on the consistency of rules to ensure that new mechanisms are “firmly rooted” in the international system.
This was supported by the EU, NORWAY and TURKEY.
DENMARK called for a Buenos Aires deal that calls upon developed countries to commit themselves to provide additional funds to developing countries and address their obligations under the FCCC and the Protocol.
The US said reporting requirements should apply equally to developed and developing countries.
The EU highlighted the connection between carbon price and technology transfer.
NORWAY said their overarching condition is that the Durban outcome should be environmentally meaningful in line with the 2ºC target.
COLOMBIA requested that a work programme be developed to broaden the natinoal adaptation plan process to include other vulnerable developing countries.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, inquired whether there would be an opportunity for the group to consider guidance from the informal high-level ministerial consultations.
Noting that impacts can change over time, QATAR highlighted the need for continuous assessment.
The PHILIPPINES underscored removal of perverse \t\tincentives, revision of the intellectual property rights regime, and \t\tSouth-South cooperation.
A contact group co-chaired by Fadhel Lari (Kuwait) and Robert Mason (UK) was convened to consider how to further the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 (implementation of Articles 4.8 and 4.9 on adverse effects) and met six times from 6-12 June.
TUVALU, with the PHILIPPINES, noted sympathy for Bolivia’s position on REDD, but said there are ways to accommodate different positions.
VENEZUELA and KUWAIT requested that the record reflect their reservations on the same issue.
On consequences applied by the enforcement branch, JAPAN, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraphs providing for consequences in case of non-compliance with Protocol Articles 5.1 (national systems), 5.2 (adjustments), 7.1 (annual inventories) and 7.4 (establishment of guidelines and modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts).
NORWAY identified the need to include emissions from \t\tdeforestation and international aviation and maritime transport.
This was seconded by MICRONESIA, the MALDIVES, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and NIUE.
On an interim CDM, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, and NORWAY underlined the need for a prompt start.
PERU recommended the inclusion of uncertainties, while the US said uncertainties should fall under national inventory reporting (NIR).
SAINT LUCIA said that with the delivery of a set of rules regarding the second commitment period, parties can look forward to additional ratifications and the period’s entry into force.
POLAND and HUNGARY said second reports are being prepared and changing guidelines will lead to delays.
The US responded that since the Secretariat has produced a good text in A/AC.237/87, the Committee could recommend that the two secretariats meet and develop an MOU in time for COP-1.
CHINA, INDIA, SUDAN and SAUDI ARABIA proposed structured submissions on priority themes for consideration at the workshop.
In the ensuing discussion, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA highlighted the role of the media in building support for climate change adaptation measures at the grassroots level, noting that policy makers will often respond to public pressure.
The EU said it expected a decision on Protocol Article 7.2 (national communications) at COP-6 and a decision on Protocol Article 8 (review of information) at COP-7.
JAPAN identified lessons for the UNFCCC from the Montreal Protocol, including developed country leadership in technology development and mitigation actions by developing countries supported by appropriate technology transfer.
The EU called for a review of the scope of current education programmes and development of more specific reporting guidelines for this issue.
BRAZIL said this work could inform the post-2012 process, while the US stated that commitments should not be based on historical responsibility.
On adjustments, Slovakia, the US, New Zealand and Canada said all inventory problems were adjustable, while the EU said inventory problems of a specific threshold were not adjustable.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, favored adopting a mandatory approach, under which the new legal instrument would require certain common and coordinated P&amp;Ms.
The US called for a clear division of responsibilities with the SBSTA offering guidelines used to produce national communications, and the SBI evaluating the synthesis report based on measures and policies from national communications.
The EU, Australia, Japan, Canada, Czech Republic, Brazil, Switzerland, South Africa and Slovakia expressed favor for Alternative A, provided that paragraph (b) reads that a decision to adopt a protocol would be taken by a 3/4 majority.
AOSIS called for addressing loss and damage and the legal form in Lima.
 BRAZIL stated that it may be appropriate to initially establish an overall aggregate quantitative objective and then negotiate the relative participation of countries or the sharing among countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, OMAN, KUWAIT, UAE, VENEZUELA, IRAN, NIGERIA and AUSTRALIA said it was premature to make recommendations given the lack of certainty in the SAR data.
The EU said industrialized countries must take the lead in reducing their GHG emissions.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, presented basic principles for Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4 (additional activities).
AOSIS said all developing countries should take mitigation action, and underscored that an essential benchmark of a future agreement must be the survival and continued viability of SIDS.
The US indicated openness to listing thematic areas identified in Decision 1/CP.17 (establishing the ADP), referring to these as e2 80 9caspects of work, e2 80 9d if this helps provide assurances that these will be addressed in the 2015 agreement.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, as host of the GCF, stated that they will do their utmost to facilitate the establishment of the interim secretariat as soon as possible.
The EU stressed the need to pay particular attention to a clear set of accounting rules for mitigation and markets.
VENEZUELA highlighted: calculation of costs and benefits to the host country’s economy; comparison of effects on each partner country; and evaluation of AIJ’s potential to reduce emissions cost-effectively.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said sectoral approaches were best applied at the national level, and, regarding the aviation sector, said additional constraints or incremental costs should not be imposed on developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA called for a comprehensive agreement on a package of decisions, rather than agreements on selective elements.
The US expressed willingness to work with the second option with the addition of references to assumptions and methodologies, “fair” instead of “equitable,” and parties’ INDCs representing their best effort in light of national circumstances.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported: a pre-sessional roundtable on mitigation; a two-day workshop on transparency; and submissions on adaptation communications and the GST.
GHANA suggested creating a technology board, with panels for different sectors.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION preferred the three-gas approach at this stage.
BRAZIL encouraged parties to refrain from suggesting new text.
Colombia, for AILAC, stressed the need for: retaining options for self-differentiation and c2 a0avoiding c2 a0a bifurcated approach to NDCs; the implementation and compliance committee to be able to work beyond self-referral; and for the GST’s scope and modalities to focus on the Paris Agreement and its long-term goals.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA supported the articulation of a shared vision for each of the building blocks.
France, on behalf of the EU, called for a pilot phase that is transparent, well-defined and credible, with no credits for Annex I Parties.
She called for agreement on a permanent representative for the SIDS on the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage in Lima.
She explained that preparing a NAPA takes 12-18 months, costs US$200,000, and requires external financial resources.
On elements, Singapore, for the G-77/China, stressed that they should be outlined along the lines of the “shalls” and “shoulds” of Paris Agreement Article 13 (enhanced transparency framework).
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted trade-related issues and argued that sectoral approaches impose burdens on developing countries.
The SUDAN noted reluctance by developed country Parties to implement their commitments in relation to the provision of finance, transfer of technology and scientific knowledge to developing countries.
Colombia, for the ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STATES (AILAC), called for an open “Indaba” on finance, saying that ministerial bilateral meetings will not suffice.
 This group was facilitated by Dan Reifsnyder (US).
On general procedures, the G-77/CHINA suggested that the ERT reports not be made publicly available before the Party concerned had the opportunity to respond in writing to the relevant branch.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the complexity of assessing the comparability of Annex I countries’ mitigation efforts.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized the importance of considering the headquarters agreement and budgetary austerity.
SAUDI ARABIA said the text should refer to actions by Annex I, not Annex II Parties.
  Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, the US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
CANADA argued that this issue is being examined in the contact group on Articles 5, 7 and 8.
The EU stressed synergies between the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP and the importance of a shared vision as a statement of political will that translates the Convention’s ultimate objective into a vision of sustainable development.
The G-77/CHINA and others asked about the origin of the EU ef bf bds \t\tfigures.
GUYANA suggested focusing on shared vision and giving increased attention to REDD.
\t\tAUSTRALIA supported retention of the figure, but agreed with CHINA that \t\tthe text should state that it refers to illustrative examples of the \t\trange of scenario studies.
Saudi Arabia, the EU, India, Iraq and China, opposed by the Russian Federation, preferred informal consultations.
NEPAL \t\tstressed the need for accessible, low-cost technology.
INDIA noted that mobilization of private capital cannot be one of its essential elements.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed the need for continued progress on reform of the CDM and technical issues under REDD+ in order for SBSTA to absorb the work of the AWGs “when their mandate ends.”
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that the outcome should not direct parties to raise ambition beyond existing NDCs, noting that many had pledged increased ambition conditional on provision of adequate finance and support.
AUSTRALIA highlighted that some major economies are yet to submit pledges, and stressed that the process of clarifying pledges should not be confrontational.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted a recent and significant shift in action on climate change and bigger commitments in capitals around the world, and said “history will not judge us from what we did today, but what we do from this day forward.”
Emphasizing the role of technology development and transfer, the EU said the Paris Agreement’s technology framework should not require additional institutional arrangements.
EGYPT opposed parallel meetings, and proposed an international mechanism on finance and technology transfer.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that these issues should be taken up under the AWG-LCA.
CANADA introduced draft decision text supported by NEW ZEALAND, POLAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SLOVENIA, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA for the G-77/ CHINA, SWITZERLAND, and the US.
  On Friday, the US cautioned against any prejudicial treatment of countries’ governance systems and Greece requested reference to “building agreement” rather than “building public agreement.” On Sunday morning, the chapter outline was agreed with textual modifications that refer to, inter alia, governance systems and climate action.
NICARAGUA said the message that developing countries should continue to e2 80 9cshoulder the burden e2 80 9d is unfair and does not build trust on the road to Lima.
With JAPAN, she said that non-Annex I Parties wishing to adopt voluntary commitments must be given an opportunity to consider their options under the Kyoto Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/China, requested that, pursuant to Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the provisional agenda for SBI-20 and subsequent sessions should include an item on the "continuing review of the function and operations of the Secretariat," and requested that this proposal be officially noted in the report of SBI-19.
The EU stressed the need for cooperative efforts between all Parties in the areas of development, application and diffusion of technologies, practices and process; AIJ; and consistency between programmes of multilateral development banks and the private sector and the objectives of the FCCC.
Iran, for the G-77/China, stated that neither COP-7 nor the WSSD was the appropriate forum for raising the issue of new commitments for developing countries.
The EU and Japan, opposed by the G-77/China, reiterated their request to delete the sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize the adverse effects of response measures.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said the current stage of negotiations should be concluded at COP-7, and stressed the need for entry into force of the Protocol.
Noting that recent events underscore the role of multilateralism, AOSIS stressed the need for a global solution to climate change with Protocol ratification as a first step.
In the \t\tdiscussion, TUVALU asked if a group of risk insurance experts could \t\tadvance the UNFCCC process.
Nauru, on behalf of AOSIS, called for a comprehensive roadmap by 2013 to identify the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions as quickly as possible.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by INDIA and AOSIS, said the use of offsets through the CDM is antithetical to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities because it allows developed countries to use the least-cost mitigation opportunities in developing countries to fulfill their own obligations while leaving the expensive mitigation to be undertaken by developing countries.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that the global nature of climate change and the complexity involved in developing the Convention requires collective efforts for success.
On commitments/contributions on mitigation, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported reference to market mechanisms.
  Recommending a focus beyond trade issues, CANADA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, suggested that discus ef bf bdsions on cleaner or less-greenhouse gas-emitting energy should be included.
CHINA underlined that proposals by AOSIS, Costa Rica and Tuvalu are being fully considered under the AWG-LCA and questioned how the legal outcome can be addressed without clear understanding of the substance.
The US underlined the need to ensure environmental additionality of JI projects.
The EU proposed adopting details of the compliance mechanism at the first meeting of the new agreement’s governing body.
The US and the EU said it would be more useful to revise the paper only after all parties have provided their specific comments.
The US thanked COP 20/CMP 10 President Pulgar-Vidal for his “leadership, commitment and generous spirit,” and emphasized the need for parties: to put forward their INDCs “well before Paris” and in a clear, transparent and understandable manner; and, to make progress on developing the elements of the 2015 agreement based on the “working document” coming out of Lima.
CHINA opposed taking a single decision on all mechanisms since this was not supported by the Protocol.
The EU urged streamlining text on validation particularly as regards baselines.
Highlighting her country’s “unique circumstances,” NEW ZEALAND said they expect to meet up to 70% of their target through non-domestic reductions, and that restrictions on the use of offsetting would result in their target changing.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said the aim for Cancún should be a politically-balanced set of decisions that could be quickly operationalized.
SLOVENIA noted that Annex I activities alone are not enough.
The G-77/CHINA denounced the “heinous” abuse of the Saudi nameplate and proposed suspending these organizations.
 \t\t\tCuba, China and the UK supported adding information on historical \t\t\temissions from before 1970.
In the discussion in the informal high-level Plenary on Tuesday, 21 November, the UK, on behalf of the EU, responded to the US proposal.
SINGAPORE emphasized the expertise of the IMO and ICAO, and encouraged parties to further support their work.
The US and EU supported moving paragraph 81 on reduced support to high-carbon investments under commitments/contributions/actions.
SAUDI ARABIA stated that the rules of procedure of the COP should apply under the new agreement.
The EU stressed keeping within the agenda, with a focus on items 3 to 7 (mitigation, adaptation communications, transparency framework, global stocktake, and implementation and compliance).
BRAZIL proposed the conclusions reflect the right of parties to make submissions.
JAPAN highlighted the importance of sectoral and regional approaches.
ECUADOR supported closer coordination with other UN Conventions, particularly the Convention on Biological Diversity.
On loss and damage, the G-77/CHINA, with VIET NAM and HAITI, emphasized the need for a distinct article on loss and damage.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about the differing levels of progress and lack of clarity on how some agenda items will move forward, and stressed the need to avoid overlapping meetings.
The G-77/CHINA supported surplus units, and emphasized the importance of nature and scope, supplementarity, and the precautionary approach.
\t\t\tSwitzerland and Sweden, opposed by the UK, Uganda and others, said \t\t\tthat reference to expert debate on MER versus PPP was not \t\t\tinteresting for policymakers and proposed deleting it.
He explained that the bulb was designed in the Netherlands, engineered and produced in India, and costs US$ 24, highlighting the high price as an example of why R&amp;D is crucial to make climate-friendly technologies affordable.
BOLIVIA stated that concrete results, including numbers, on other building blocks would enable agreement on a global goal, based on ambitious results from the AWG-KP.
MALAYSIA, SENEGAL, NAMIBIA, BRAZIL, and ERITREA underscored the need for Article 6 activities to be country driven.
 c2 a0The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the LDCs and opposed by CHINA, suggested replacing e2 80 9celements e2 80 9d with e2 80 9ccomponents.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said parties in Doha must establish a separate expert body for the Review to feed into the ADP, as well as a platform for developing common accounting rules.
NAMIBIA said \t\trecurrent drought and desertification make his country vulnerable to \t\tclimate change, and urged all UNFCCC Parties to comply with their \t\tobligations.
The G-77/ CHINA opposed the option of a "take it or leave it" approach, and proposed alternative text regarding the prioritization of, and funding for, economic diversification activities.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted the progress made on loss and damage, on Convention Article 6, and on non-Annex I parties national communications and praised the utility of the forum on the impact of implementation of response measures and the efforts of the GEF towards national communications.
The LDCs, NEW ZEALAND and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA said triggers could be linked to the transparency framework, with AILAC noting the transparency framework as only one input.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by several developing countries, observed that AIJ is separate from the mechanisms arising from the Protocol.
The US and CANADA emphasized concerns with quantitative caps.
France responded that the EU believes that the preparatory work on national communications will be financed by the financial mechanism.
The conclusions called for the organization of a second SBSTA workshop prior to the tenth session to focus on issues related to Article 3.4 of the Kyoto Protocol (such as methodologies, uncertainties, and research and data needs) and welcomed the US offer to provide a venue.
Noting the need for an enabling environment and the potential of the CDM, CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the private sector should be the main vehicle for technology transfer.
NORWAY proposed common levels of greenhouse gas emissions per unit of GDP, greenhouse gas emissions per capita and GDP per capita.
MALAWI and Bangladesh, for the LDCs, opposed co-financing.
AUSTRALIA underscored the vital role of REDD+ in mitigation efforts and said they would provide AUS$ 500,000 for technical work in the lead up to Durban.
On mechanisms, JAPAN cautioned against too many constraints on their use.
 CANADA suggested, and Parties agreed, to note that work on technology transfer undertaken by SBSTA complements work in other fora.
The US Chamber of Commerce launched an Internet campaign to disseminate information from foreign policy experts to the public in order to build opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, which it characterized as a threat to US security and sovereignty.
On modalities, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that it is premature to determine that there will be two phases.
Japan and the US asked questions about the voluntary nature of contributions.
He explained that there will be no gap in the EU’s mitigation activities after the first commitment period, as the new legislation to implement the 20% reduction target will apply from 2013 onwards.
JAPAN questioned the proposal to revise the level of working capital reserves.
Many countries said that a land-based accounting approach is a desirable long-term goal, but BRAZIL, CHINA and JAPAN underscored incomplete reporting of data, as well as the existing scientific uncertainties of measurement, including the challenge of distinguishing between anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic emissions and removals.
The EU called for a revised negotiating text for a decision to be adopted at COP-6.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with many other developing countries, stressed that the use of LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms should aim to increase the level of ambition of the current pledges and not just to achieve the current pledges.
AUSTRALIA supported the adoption of a single treaty, but said that to address developing countries’ concerns, his country could agree on outcomes under both tracks.
The EU wished the ExCom successful implementation of its workplan and thanked parties for their work, which “allowed us to strengthen efforts on loss and damage.”
Tuvalu proposed addressing commitments for adaptation, \t\t\twhile the EU noted that funding for adaptation should be considered \t\t\tunder the Protocol Article 9 review.
Consultations were also being held between the US and India on the composition of the Executive Board, and between China, Norway and Canada on the possible role of multilateral funding institutions.
TIMOR LESTE stressed the importance of addressing risk assessment and key methodologies in particularly vulnerable LDCs.
KAZAKHSTAN said it is preparing procedures for the Protocol 92s ratification.
The G-77/China, the Russian Federation and the US objected to text requesting the Secretariat to develop a draft work programme on the TAR.
The US noted that the EU collectively argued in 1990 that they would reduce emissions drastically.
The US supported the use of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines and annual inventories.
CHINA noted that groups preparing documents on technology transfer should note that technology transfer refers to environmentally sound technologies, as defined in Agenda 21; full systems of technologies and know-how, which fall within national priorities.
The US draft establishes a pilot phase for JI beginning immediately after COP-1 and open to all Parties.
The EU said they were also relatively satisfied with progress and commended, inter alia, the approach of focusing on areas of convergence.
UGANDA and others supported holding a joint AWG-LCA and AWG-KP meeting.
Noting the need for rules on markets and LULUCF, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for broad and effective participation of all parties under a single, new legally-binding agreement.
CHINA emphasized that parties, rather than the Secretariat, should decide which proposals are consequential amendments and which are not.
On the IPCC report, BOLIVIA noted the absence of concrete definitions of terms such as "forests," which were relevant to other Protocol Articles and, opposed by POLAND, proposed developing one universal definition.
SWITZERLAND explained that equity in the negotiations will emerge through differentiated forms of mitigation, adaptation and support; and elaborated on various equity principles including, inter alia, a focus on the ability to pay and the polluter-pays principle.
TUVALU advocated considering implications of changing the Marrakesh Accords.
SWITZERLAND supported avoiding fragmentation of funding sources, and strengthening existing institutions, including the GEF.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted adaptation and response measures as key issues.
UGANDA supported formal negotiations to \t\tenhance the implementation of the Convention.
On text agreeing on a meeting to facilitate an exchange of views, the US agreed, "in the spirit of compromise," to the EU 92s wish that this should take the form of intersessional consultations rather than a side event.
Various parties highlighted that NDCs should: include adaptation, finance, technology transfer, and capacity building components; be informed by the outcomes of the global stocktake; cover all significant GHG emissions and gases; link to long-term low-GHG emissions strategies; take into account the concerns of parties most affected by impacts of response measures; and show flexibility towards LDCs and SIDS.
He noted support expressed by the EU leaders for 80-95% emission reductions from 1990 levels by 2050, and called on other developed countries to adopt the same goal.
 \t\t\t  \t\t\tthe EU’s \t\t\ttarget of a 20% market share for renewables by 2020, as well as work \t\t\ton carbon capture and storage (CCS).
COSTA RICA, for Chile, Colombia and Peru, encouraged the UNFCCC to further engage with other multilateral bodies, namely ICAO and IMO.
GUATEMALA called for human development indicators to be included in funding criteria.
On the chapeau of paragraph 21, BRAZIL identified legal strength, differentiation and references to articles of the Convention as key concepts.
Reacting to the US proposal, AOSIS said his group has a clear position on this subject, and that he looked forward to sharing it once the details of the US proposal were further clarified.
AUSTRALIA supported a “climate effective” agreement that: is applicable to all; is capable of evolving over time to promote increasing ambition as countries’ capabilities and confidence grow; and provides incentives for countries to take action.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted that the primary idea of the Protocol’s flexibility mechanisms is to encourage countries with emission reduction targets to fulfill them, and identified the need to address the mechanisms through this lens.
 On this issue, Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed doubt as to whether a redesign is needed and stressed that discussions on this issue should not prejudge AWG-KP outcomes.
The EU said no consensus had been reached on the issue, noting that conflict of interest of non-state actors could be discussed at the SBI 46 in-session workshop.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the accountability of the financial mechanism to the parties, the requirement to mobilize financial resources and the principle of equity.
On institutional linkages, the PHILIPPINES called for harmonization and for integrating a monitoring system with monitoring indicators and feedback mechanisms.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the issue’s importance for the Group and noted it should be part of a future agreement, reflecting the Convention’s principles and provisions.
The EU noted the high improbability of reaching agreement on a trading system in time for COP-3.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said that agreement on a second commitment period is a top priority that requires engagement and movement away from the precondition that all parties take on responsibilities.
CHINA supported \t\tparallel but independent processes under the Convention and the \t\tProtocol, with the Dialogue addressing mitigation, technology transfer, \t\tfunding and adaptation.
The G-77/CHINA noted the need to include experts from developing countries and sought full transparency.
The PHILIPPINES, with SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, stressed that technology transfer was a commitment under the FCCC and opposed linking it to the CDM.
For its work and efforts e2 80 9cto build up and disseminate greater knowledge about manmade climate change, and to lay the foundations needed to counteract such change, e2 80 9d the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice-President Al Gore, in December 2007.
He then invited the US to indicate how their views might be better reflected.
President Mezouar also launched an appeal to all parties to support the “Marrakech Call for Action,” describing it as “a call based on the values we are all committed to.” AILAC and the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO expressed their support for a call.
NEW ZEALAND stated that a protocol must lead to equitable marginal abatement costs across borders utilizing economic instruments.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for guidance that addresses the diversity of NDCs, and is voluntary and not prescriptive.
 SAUDI ARABIA recalled that parties were unable to reach consensus on this issue at SBSTA 48 and emphasized that parties had therefore not extended an invitation to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and International Maritime Organization (IMO) to report on their work at SBSTA 49.
Speaking as Co-Chair of IPCC Working Group II, the US replied to China\'s question about impacts under lower projected temperature rise, noting that the SAR looked at the sensitivity of systems to climate change, thus allowing for lower predictions.
The EU said first priority should be given to identification of technology needs and the Secretariat should focus on existing systems information centers.
COLOMBIA and GHANA drew attention to CDM potential in the \t\ttransport sector.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and INDONESIA said information should be made available with enough time for its consideration.
The US and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the important role of the private sector in ensuring the Fund functions.
ARGENTINA, supported by CHINA, and opposed by the EU and the US, suggested unilateral measures could be a cross-cutting issue in response measures.
The EU said the Tool is “not ideal,” but recognized that it structures the discussions.
JAPAN, NORWAY and the EU favored the “actual emission approach,” but also encouraged the submission of data using the “potential approach.” The EU stated that Parties should report the best available estimate of actual emissions, to the extent that national circumstances permit.
She suggested that the deadline for the ADP could be extended, which NORWAY and the US opposed.
The AFRICA GROUP proposed a stand-alone decision on interim arrangements.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that negotiations under the ADP must seek to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Convention.
The Chair asked Dan Reifsnyder (US) and John Ashe (Antigua and Barbuda) to co-chair a contact group to prepare a draft decision.
e2 80 9d Citing the need for balance, Saudi Arabia objected to including only data for a &gt;66% probability and, opposed by Norway, the UK, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, Chile, Japan, Austria and others, called for also including equivalent information for &gt;50% and &gt;33% probabilities.
  In the contact group, delegates considered text on arrangements for COP 14 and COP/MOP 4, with the G-77/CHINA indicating that it remained concerned about arrangements for these events, including visa issues, payment questions, and accommodation costs.
INDIA supported project-by-project baselines.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted progress on REDD and the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
COLOMBIA highlighted the importance of non-state actor participation in the process.
TURKEY noted it expects a COP decision in Bonn on its request.
During the discussion, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed disappointment regarding the slow progress of the AWG-LCA in light of the challenging programme in the lead up to COP 15.
The EU, Japan and Australia expressed doubts about bringing this matter before the ACABQ.
TUVALU urged building on the Protocol’s architecture and listed possible amendments, including extending the share of proceeds.
On reference emission levels, MEXICO called for developing approaches that countries may choose from, according to national circumstances, and BOLIVIA proposed “development adjustment factors.”
 This contact group, co-chaired by Terry Carrington (UK) and Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad &amp; Tobago) addressed elements of a future EGTT work programme.
AUSTRALIA highlighted some collaborative initiatives, such as the Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute and the Asia-Pacific Partnership.
Dari c3 b3 G c3 b3mez (Argentina) and Yasna Rojas (Chile), for Region III, Dominique Blain (Canada) and Thomas Wirth (US), for Region IV, and Rob Sturgiss (Australia) and Fahmuddin Agus (Indonesia), for Region V, were therefore elected to the TFB by acclamation.
UGANDA, with NORWAY, stressed including agroforestry.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that adaptation to climate change involves both adaptation to the impacts of climate change and adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the establishment of the ADP should result in a strengthened multilateral, rule-based climate change regime, emphasizing the need for significant scaling up of developed country mitigation ambition.
Based on this, and on proposals made \t\tby the EU, G-77/China, and US, the Co-Chairs prepared draft conclusions.
The EU and other Parties reaffirmed their objection to Canada 92s original proposal on accounting for cleaner energy exports.
Norway, Switzerland, Canada, Japan and the EU, opposed by India, Brazil, Barbados and China, requested the option to provide further submissions on the operational priorities of the Fund at SBI-18.
Suriname, for AOSIS, welcomed progress on the NWP, noting the importance of translating increased awareness and support into action on the ground.
The G-77/ CHINA supported more information on adaptation policy options, and JAPAN said a mitigation portfolio was also necessary.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested a life-cycle approach focusing on financing for: retrofitting old technologies; deploying existing technologies; incentivizing emerging technologies; and research and development of new technologies.
CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK (CAN) said if parties embrace common but differentiated responsibilities, this would equate to the EU contributing about one fourth, and the US about one third, of adaptation funding in developing countries, which she estimated at US$50 billion per year.
The EU expressed frustration that, during the AWG-LCA discussions on legal options, parties had not even allowed the facilitator to summarize options for the legal form of the AWG-LCA’s outcome.
He noted the importance AOSIS attaches to adaptation.
ARGENTINA supported wide participation in a future regime, \t\tand recognition of the environmental debt generated by imposing \t\tadaptation costs on developing countries.
SENEGAL, for LDCs, noted that without movement on the Kyoto track, other tracks cannot move significantly.
On additional cross-cutting issues, SAUDI ARABIA asked about, inter alia: the relationship between the financial penalty under the compliance regime and Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14; the relationship between the compliance mechanism and Articles 5 and 7; and whether an Annex I Party might lose its eligibility to participate in the mechanisms if in non-compliance with other Articles.
TRINDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, supported a ministerial segment.
The US also preferred a staggered approach, noting the challenges of conducting concurrent reviews of WG reports.
NIUE said its vulnerability is related to capacity limitations.
SOUTH AFRICA said new mechanisms should not be merely offsetting mechanisms and that double counting should be avoided.
On the linkage between CDM and LULUCF, BRAZIL, with the G-77/CHINA, argued that CDM discussions be contingent on decisions in the LULUCF contact group, and objected to a proposed presentation by the Secretariat on this issue, and to a question-and-answer session by the Chair.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported: a process to scale up the ambition of mitigation pledges; a second commitment period; a Durban mandate for a legally-binding agreement in accordance with the Bali Action Plan; operationalizing the new institutions established in Cancun; and reviewing the adequacy of the long-term global goal for emission reductions.
Emphasizing that the EU had “shown patience” and readiness to commit to a second commitment period of at least five years, the EU, supported by Chile, Norway and Colombia, called for a protocol or legal instrument under the Convention by 2018.
 \t\tThe EU underscored, inter alia: demand drivers for  \t\tCDM; a new EU \t\tfund 96 the Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund (GEEREF) 96 \t\texpected to be worth 80100 million; that the EU as a whole will probably \t\texceed its Kyoto targets; that ETS will allow it to meet those targets \t\tat half the cost; and linking ETS to other cap-and-trade systems.
COSTA RICA presented on the national payment for environmental services (PES) scheme, noting that their experiences: consider non-carbon benefits; draw from different sources of funding; and compensate for a variety of forest-related activities.
SOUTH AFRICA reported on informal meetings held after Durban, highlighting outstanding issues such as the carry-over of surplus AAUs and the length of the second commitment period.
GHANA highlighted the proposed multilateral technology acquisition fund.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, underlined the importance of principles and Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, noted previous substantive decisions by parties on capacity building relevant to this sub-section.
The UK noted a range of possible topics for a Special \t\tReport, in particular the function of capital markets in energy \t\tinvestment, and, with France and Switzerland, preferred postponing \t\tdeliberation of this until the next IPCC session to allow for further \t\tconsideration.
INDIA lamented downward trend in the allocation of resources.
JORDAN reconfirmed its offer to host COP-5 and said it had already begun negotiations with the Secretariat on arrangements.
COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA cautioned against a "pick-and-choose" approach under Article 3.4, under which Annex I Parties could account for additional activities that sequester carbon but ignore additional sources.
JAPAN highlighted the importance of LULUCF and the flexible mechanisms, and the potential of different sectoral approaches.
AUSTRALIA urged incorporation of further details on: the relation between developing and developed countries mitigation and the registry, MRV and ICA.
With the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, she emphasized that QELROs must be negotiated between parties and not prescribed.
The EU stressed their commitment to ensuring that work on both negotiating tracks results in a global comprehensive framework and said priority in 2010 should be given to the core issues while reflecting the political guidance in the Copenhagen Accord.
CANADA \t\t\thighlighted regional and sectoral differences and the RUSSIAN \t\t\tFEDERATION emphasized the need to consider national circumstances.
On amendments to Annexes I and II, Ambassador Herrera (Venezuela) reported that informal consultations regarding Turkey\'s status had not resulted in consensus, and, supported by TURKEY, recommended deferring the item to SBI-9, which was agreed.
INDIA stated that the AWG would have to \t\twait until 2008 before parties could see what Annex I parties were \t\tprepared to accept.
  The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested continuing this dialogue.
SWITZERLAND suggested compromise language that was accepted by the group.
Bolivia, for ALBA and Paraguay, said it is unacceptable for Annex I parties to make new commitments conditional on greater flexibility for their economies and governments.
SAUDI ARABIA, with VENEZUELA, CHINA and QATAR, said the enforcement branch 92s mandate should include determination of whether an Annex I Party is in non-compliance with FCCC Article 3.14 (adverse effects).
AOSIS cautioned against overlapping institutions.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the importance of a paragraph on evaluating the real cost of preparing national communications.
AUSTRALIA stressed that Article 3.1 targets should constitute the core of the compliance system.
Guatemala, for AILAC emphasized: the need to further progress work on the GST; the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue as highly relevant for achieving the trajectory demanded by the science; and transparency of action and transparency of support are pillars of trust among parties.
The US stated that while the Convention itself is an historic achievement, it was clear from Annex I Parties\' national communications that reaching the Convention\'s aim remains elusive.
The G-77/CHINA underlined that it would not discuss the issue of frequency of submissions.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a permanent seat for AOSIS on the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage, and cautioned against e2 80 9cnegotiation by exhaustion.
Peru, for AILAC, requested the COP report reflect the group’s position that the special circumstances of all developing countries should be taken into account.
INDIA opposed quantified emission reductions in the mitigation section.
• invites voluntary contributions to the LDC Fund from Annex II parties and other parties in a position to do so;
SAUDI ARABIA sought a reference to compliance with obligations contained in Protocol Articles 2 (P&amp;Ms) and 3 (targets).
SENEGAL, BHUTAN, AUSTRALIA, INDONESIA and MEXICO, opposed by the EU and CHINA, outlined arguments in favor of the Colombian proposal.
AUSTRALIA called for a focus on operational issues to strengthen the Convention’s implementation and cautioned against negotiating the preamble since it is not an essential element of implementation.
The European Union (EU) asked for clarification on whether participating organizations are also considered in the round of comments by governments for SPM approval.
In response to the EU, AOSIS and the LDCs noted that the principles should not create obstacles in accessing financing.
INDONESIA and INDIA urged ratification of the Doha Amendment.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, EIG, the EU, CANADA and others, opposed this.
The US and EU opposed a proposal by Argentina to remove brackets from text on national communications, which would have permitted funding for Stage II adaptation activities to be based either on national communications or other national studies.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by MEXICO, proposed launching a process for discussing transparency rules during 2015, with SOUTH AFRICA saying this should be reflected in the ADP conclusions from Lima.
The EU called for work on methodologies for quantifying changes in soil carbon as a result of forest activities since 1990, and on whether the current revised 1996 IPCC guidelines allow for transparent reporting and verfication.
The G-77/CHINA informed they need to coordinate on whether this is an acceptable approach.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said parties in Doha must decide to establish a separate expert body for the Review to feed into the ADP and establish a platform for developing common accounting rules.
COLOMBIA and SINGAPORE requested clarification on the status of the high-level segment, regarding whether it would be at summit level involving heads of state and government.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), highlighted the ADP as a turning point in the UNFCCC negotiations.
SUDAN raised the need to address basic questions first, such as eligibility for participation in the CDM.
During the subsequent discussion, TUVALU noted the need to include all major emitters and sectors, and consider the cost of adaptation.
 SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, stressed the need to concentrate on analysis and assessment activities during AGBM 2, and questioned whether negotiations could proceed in absence of adequate information.
SIERRA LEONE and LIBERIA called for special consideration for the LDCs.
94 However, this was opposed by the EU, \t\tand was not included in the final text.
South Africa, for BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India and China), called for more time for deliberations on finance, adaptation, and transparency, and stressed the need for moving towards a comprehensive party-driven negotiating text, and for increasing pre-2020 ambition.
Belize, for SICA, called for Annex I parties to raise their level of ambition and highlighted the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
The US expressed concern with leaving all decisions to the authors and said the matter should be driven by the scientific literature.
The US said the issue \t\t\tis not the robustness of the information, but the way the \t\t\tinformation is conveyed, which has to stand up to broad scrutiny \t\t\tfrom all angles.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted as difficult issues double counting in Agreement Article 6 and differentiation in discussions under Agreement Articles 9.5 and 9.7.
ARGENTINA, supported by FINLAND and BENIN, said innovative approaches were needed and called for the establishment of small task forces in the run-up to COP-6.
JAPAN emphasized that the ICAO and IMO are the most appropriate bodies to consider international transport emissions.
The Philippines, supported by several parties, proposed deleting item 4 and amending item 3 to “planning of work in accordance with all the elements of Decision 1/CP.17.” Grenada, the EU, Barbados and others opposed this proposal.
He also stated that the refusal of some countries to support his proposal “left him wondering.” MALAYSIA stated that he was caught in surprise at COP-2 and felt an “air of conspiracy.” ARGENTINA reminded delegates that the SBI can provide recommendations to the COP but cannot decide what the COP will do.
On the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 texts, Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), emphasized that the non-paper on elements for a draft negotiating text is e2 80 9cnot perfect, e2 80 9d but could be e2 80 9ca useful starting point.
BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY suggested a COP decision in 2018.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that this review was for the first commitment period and the text reflects review for the second commitment period.
The US, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA said this issue was not a priority for COP-6 and could be dealt with through the forthcoming national communications.
ALGERIA, with SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA, CHINA, MALAYSIA and EGYPT, opposed this as being premature.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that intentional non-compliance would trigger the dispute settlement provision in the agreement.
PAKISTAN cautioned against the use of global generalizations and recommended that the SAR be amended to reflect regional differences in climate change.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, said almost half the RAF allocation for many Pacific Islands goes towards national communications, leaving little for other activities.
Stressing the need for consistency between the CDM and JI, JAPAN called for retaining an option to include co-benefits as criteria for JI projects, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed new criteria for JI projects.
JAPAN emphasized that their participation in negotiations under the AWG-KP track is aimed at making progress on rules related to LULUCF, mechanisms and the basket of methodological issues, and that they expect these mechanisms to be part of a framework that includes all major emitters in a single, fair and effective agreement.
CANADA and the US questioned reference to the "prompt implementation" of the framework.
 \t\tNoting that an \t\tincrease of 2 b0C in global temperature would have devastating impacts on \t\tSIDS, Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need for a global comprehensive \t\tresponse within the UNFCCC framework and building on the Kyoto Protocol, \t\tleading to stabilization well below 445 ppm.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/ CHINA, objected to text referring to information exchange among "all Parties," and to text "inviting Annex I Parties and other interested Parties" to share information during informal round-tables.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concerns about the implementation of national adaptation plans, and stressed transparency and additionality of financial resources.
Liechtenstein, on behalf of the EIG, emphasized that the objective in Doha is to finalize work on the Kyoto Protocol second commitment period and outlined three outstanding issues: length of the second commitment period; level of ambition; and the smooth transition to the second commitment period.
The US requested to include reference to the global stocktake in guidance for authors and to simultaneously add reference to the global stocktake to the introduction and framing chapter bullet on changing policy context.
During contact group discussions, the EU proposed streamlining the draft conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2009/L.15/Rev.1) by deleting several preambular paragraphs.
Maldives, for AOSIS, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND proposed discussions based on previous work by the SBSTA and the Standing Committee on Finance (SCF).
Ecuador, for ALBA, hoped that the third review of the Adaptation Fund would facilitate increased provision of resources.
 The UK said that time must not be wasted renegotiating the BM.
She said that most of the background work has already been carried by the IPCC, OECD, IEA and UNEP.
SAUDI ARABIA, the EU, INDIA, IRAQ and CHINA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, preferred informal consultations.
TUVALU reiterated the “strong plea” for two legally-binding protocols as the outcome from Copenhagen and insisted that an option to sign a legally-binding agreement in Copenhagen be put to the ministers.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS observed initial and subsequent communication cycles, saying the former could be in a COP decision and the latter in the agreement.
CANADA highlighted the need to avoid duplicating efforts with the review of the Protocol under Article 9.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of principles and drew attention to problems arising from a lack of coherence and the multiplicity of governance systems that deal with financing.
SUDAN said Parties needed time to review the information and findings of technical workshops.
THAILAND noted difficulties with the adaptation assessment model.
On MOI, Javier Manzanares, ad interim Executive Director, GCF, highlighted 27 approved projects and programmes, which will leverage an estimated US$9.4 billion in on-the ground investment.
Peru, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), called for progress on, inter alia: designing the 2018 facilitative dialogue; adopting a gender action plan; and supporting work on emerging issues such as oceans, health, and indigenous peoples.
SWITZERLAND said identifying elements for decision text is an evolving process, and the UAE suggested the ADP Co-Chairs make annotations of suggested placement in the revised text.
Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu, LDC Chair, stressed addressing methodologies to account for climate finance to increase transparency and confidence.
NORWAY also suggested reference to health, just transition and, with CANADA, indigenous peoples’ rights.
INDIA stressed the importance of equity and CBDR as “guiding norms” in determining obligations and the nature and level of efforts.
AUSTRALIA stressed that future work should be policy neutral, not prescriptive.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, urged ensuring that urgency and ambition are “more than words for preambles and statements.”
PANAMA underscored the need to develop technologies to "clean the atmosphere," and SLOVENIA urged the development of new technologies to mitigate climate change.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a commitment period of 8 years.
The EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed interest in discussing HFCs.
The EU and Switzerland said their submissions on baselines for CDM applied to JI.
  On this issue (FCCC/KP/CMP/2008/4 and FCCC/AWG/2008/3), CHINA, JAPAN and others lamented delays in CDM project registration and an increase in review requests by the CDM Executive Board.
The EU introduced its draft proposal that seeks to stop the non-credited pilot phase now and start an AIJ phase with possible crediting, subject to decision-making in the mechanisms negotiation.
Calling for significant action by major economies, he highlighted measures by the US and China in their economic stimulus packages to promote clean energy.
Although differing on the specific conditions, countries in favor of including sinks within the CDM include the US, Canada, Australia, Japan and Norway.
The EU asked for specific recommendations on which rules could be tightened to reduce the emissions gap.
 Parties continued textual proposals on NAMAs, including on MRV, ICA, categorization of parties, special provisions for SIDS and LDCs, and specification of support.
The EU said he had hoped for more progress in Bonn, predicted that further discussions will be difficult, and underscored the need to be innovative and open-minded to achieve an ambitious level of emission reductions.
In the first SBI discussion on this matter, the US proposed that recommendations from the CGE be considered as a basis for improvements of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
The G-77/CHINA, the EU and the LMDCs stressed the need for a draft decision on workstream 2.
The LDC Expert Group (LEG) reported that it advanced its work to provide guidance on National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) and to consult parties on their needs.
AUSTRALIA supported retaining the reference to "most authoritative and comprehensive" as well as paragraph 2.
On the way forward, SWITZERLAND suggested the Chair provide clarity on the available options and underscored the need for further discussions on “technicalities” on issues such as LULUCF and mechanisms.
Several parties, including China, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, South Africa and AILAC noted it is premature to discuss placement.
 \t\t\tGermany, for \t\t\tthe EU, stated the EU’s commitment to cut emissions by 30% by 2020 \t\t\tcompared with 1990 levels if other developed countries follow suit \t\t\tand economically advanced developing countries “contribute \t\t\tadequately according to their responsibilities and respective \t\t\tcapabilities.” She urged extending the carbon market, addressing \t\t\temissions from international aviation and maritime transportation, \t\t\tand progress on the Adaptation Fund and budget.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the role of major economies and identified the need for a global agreement that is informed by science, achievable, comprehensive, and able to reflect the full spectrum of mitigation and adaptation options.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for building on the Cancun Agreements, including developing strong outcomes on REDD+.
CANADA opposed Tuvalu’s proposal to classify “removing financial additionality” as a second commitment period issue.
CANADA outlined actions geared toward meeting its economy-wide target of reducing emissions by 17% from 2005 levels.
JAPAN suggested that the contact group reconvene in light of G-77/China\'s willingness to engage.
 NORWAY, ICELAND and AUSTRALIA suggested establishing indicators as a basis for differentiation.
 Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a technical process to deploy specific mitigation solutions.
China, for BASIC, welcomed the text as open and balanced, and indicated willingness to work towards an outcome that reflects fairness and ambition.
The EU proposed requesting GEF to report to the COP on its funding for developing countries to build capacity for participation in systematic observation networks.
She opposed “weak political solutions,” stressing that AOSIS is not prepared to wait and gamble with the safety and livelihoods of their people, and called for a legally-binding outcome in Copenhagen.
 \t\t\tThe UK \t\t\tidentified the need to consider the role of the UNFCCC in technology \t\t\tcooperation in the longer term, and ICELAND said one element of this \t\t\tcould involve encouraging cooperation between the government and \t\t\tprivate sectors.
Nauru, for AOSIS, discussed elements of equity, science, sustainable development and survival.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the core mandate of the ongoing negotiations is to define ambitious quantified emission reduction targets for future commitment periods.
She \t\tsaid the US wanted to go forward as part of a new framework and to be \t\tpart of the roadmap.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the framework should measure progress toward a global goal of 1.5 or 2 c2 b0C and promote participation of all countries.
The EU suggested text on effective institutional arrangements.
NORWAY called for an ambitious and long-term global climate change regime and stressed the need for a political response to the IPCC TAR.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for a “solid and strong” definition of comparability, highlighting the Protocol as the basis for comparability assessment and identifying the need to define comparability through international negotiations rather than nationally.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, the EU and US supported the revised conclusions, arguing that they provided a balanced compromise.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and QATAR observed that they had both offered to host COP 18 and COP/MOP 8 and said they were consulting bilaterally on the matter.
Chair Ojoo-Massawa then presented the draft decision on the CGE, noting that all reference to LDCs and NAPAs remains bracketed pending the decision taken in the LDC consultations on whether mention of LDCs and NAPAs would be included in the CGE decision.
He added that the OECD and the IEA have already begun work on a possible process, and that the UK would regard the reduction of 5% to 10% below 1990 levels as an acceptable figure.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, preferred referring to efforts that parties are able to e2 80 9cundertake, e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cmake unilaterally.
SAUDI ARABIA identified the need for new text under the Protocol track.
India, with AOSIS, suggested widening the scope to include an assessment of adequacy in accordance with the latest available scientific literature.
EGYPT invited the Chair to present a balanced proposal.
CANADA suggested requesting the FCCC Secretariat to organize workshops on adverse effects and on response measures, and report the outcomes at COP-7.
Bangladesh urged a focus on proposals that highlight the needs of LDCs and SIDS.
MADAGASCAR highlighted uncertainty over impacts of a voluntary registry.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed the Secretariat prepare a document providing references to existing guidelines and modalities that may be applicable to this and other APA agenda items.
Noting \t\tthat the first commitment period is only an initial step, SWITZERLAND, \t\tfor the Environmental Integrity Group, urged Parties to consider ways \t\tand means to address climate change challenges beyond 2012.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, said addressing climate change is best served by a regime that includes commitments from all major emitters and said that the regime constructed under the AWG-LCA should “draw together actions by all.” AUSTRALIA underscored the need to resolve technical issues related to LULUCF under the AWG-KP track.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested clarification of the meaning of e2 80 9cactions e2 80 9d and e2 80 9ccommitments.
FRANCE stated that effective market transformation is \t\tdriven by retailers and manufacturers.
ADOPTION OF AGENDA: Following the opening statements, the COP adopted its agenda (FCCC/CP/1999/1) with the exception of item 5 relating to the second review of the adequacy of commitments under FCCC Article 4.2(a) and (b) (policies and measures by Annex I Parties), following objections to the title by the G-77/CHINA, who preferred to substitute it with the 93review of adequacy of implementation of FCCC Articles 4.2(a) and (b).
The EU, opposed by BRAZIL, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and KENYA, suggested that the CGE 92s findings be presented by June 2001 to contribute to the review of guidelines so as to adopt at COP-7 improved guidelines for the second national communications.
  The EU, opposed by CHINA, said SBSTA conclusions should include a reference to substitutes for ozone depleting substances, as contained in the report of the 20th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol.
  The UN Climate Summit was held on 23 September 2014, at UN Headquarters in New York, US, hosted by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Parties were informed that matters pertaining to guidance to the GEF on implementing the LDC work programme had been moved to the group on the financial mechanism.
The EU proposed holding a workshop, roundtable and high-level discussion at COP 14 on this issue.
AOSIS identified the need for clarity on sectors, the meaning of credits, boundary issues, MRV and source of funds.
e2 80 9d NORWAY said parties will need to decide what status to give to the e2 80 9cimproved non-paper e2 80 9d on elements.
On allowing borrowing of assigned amount from future commitment periods, the G-77/CHINA supported no decision on the issue, while UKRAINE and CANADA preferred maintaining the option.
The US emphasized a consultative period and upfront information as important for promoting ambition and clarity.
In their opening statements, Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), warned against “transferring unresolved issues” from the AWG-LCA to the SBSTA, saying the AWG-LCA should maintain an overview of specific issues that were mandated for consideration by the SBSTA.
The EU outlined possible elements of a Copenhagen agreement, including: integration of adaptation into national decision making and planning; scaling up of resources for adaptation; and support for LDCs to formulate adaptation plans and programmes.
The LMDCs, opposed by the EU, proposed developing accounting guidance for technology and capacity-building support.
CHINA called for clear temporal goals for addressing critical issues and suggested prioritizing institutional arrangements.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed “alarm over certain elements of the report, which would hinder democratic access to resources.” She stressed that the GCF must possess international legal personality, work under the guidance of the COP and have no conflict of interest between the fiduciary and executive trustee functions.
Obasi thanked the UK government for hosting the meeting.
The US also said the registry was an important element for ensuring accurate reporting and tracking, as well as to ensure compliance.
The EU said the SCCF should be a catalyst for leveraging additional resources from bilateral and multilateral sources.
Canada, supported by the US, noted the need to involve both communications specialists as well as scientific writers.
FINLAND said a comprehensive negotiation package should also address the concerns of EITs.
Bolivia, for ALBA, said the Durban outcome did not deliver a solution to developed countries’ lack of political will to undertake ambitious emission reduction commitments.
FINLAND said high resolution climate models are not yet well developed.
On needs assessment, CANADA proposed an integrated approach beyond needs assessment in a narrow sense, to improve the enabling environment for technology transfer.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, emphasized the centrality of the UNFCCC framework and highlighted the need for renewed trust-building among parties.
The AFRICA GROUP said the issue of access to development financing through AIJ required urgent resolution at COP-5.
On the path towards Durban, SOUTH AFRICA, as the incoming Presidency, noted the challenges but expressed optimism that the talks would continue to instill confidence in the UNFCCC process.
JAPAN stressed the need to coordinate work with the AWG-KP and to revise the MRV system to include both Annex I and non-Annex I parties, taking into account differences between them.
The US stated that commitments for all Parties must allow for economic growth while simultaneously protecting the environment.
On the time remaining in Bonn, the G-77/CHINA, the LMDCs and BRAZIL suggested discussing cross-cutting issues, and, with Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and Angola, for the LDCs, addressing workstream 2.
JAPAN urged speeding up work on the text, and identified the need to discuss overarching mitigation issues and to ensure coherence between the two negotiating tracks.
Regarding research and systematic observations, ARGENTINA, on behalf of the Valdivia Group, sought expanded research on natural climate variability in the region and on oceanic effects.
 \t\tThe EU, CANADA and others said deforestation should be part of the \t\tframework addressing climate change post-2012.
On supplementarity, he identified “a strong wish” to limit the CDM, noting a cap on CDM credits in the EU’s post-2012 climate and energy package.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said the AWG-LCA must expedite its work and AWG-KP 6 should agree on emission reduction ranges for industrialized countries as a group.
SOUTH AFRICA supported the need to develop modeling activities and improve data collection in developing countries.
New Zealand, with the EU, US and Japan, emphasized that such estimates from all sectors should be prepared under good practice guidance, and be adjusted when they are not prepared according to the agreed methodologies.
Regarding the draft decision, the EU, JAPAN and NORWAY questioned the need for text in the decision on principles.
On paragraph 98 on principles and targets regarding the provision of finance post-2020, parties agreed to a proposal by the G-77/CHINA to delete option 3 in favor of option 4.
On the time-frame for market \t\tincentives and government intervention, FRANCE noted that progress in \t\ttechnological innovations is evident before regulation.
Chile, for AILAC, said that e2 80 9ccontributions e2 80 9d should be communicated every five years, with an indication of contributions for the subsequent five-year period, as well as the five-year period following that.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the importance of maintaining the UNFCCC and Protocol as separate and distinct bodies, both legally and procedurally.
The EU expressed willingness to commit to a second commitment period as part of a global, binding framework.
TUVALU also proposed taking up sectoral approaches under the AWGLCA, creating revenues for low emitting countries by auctioning AAUs and reviewing accessibility and geographical allocation rules.
The EU stressed focusing on actual mitigation actions that are additional to those already in place.
The SBI decides to consider further guidance for the operation of the LDC Fund at SBI-19 with a view to recommending a decision to COP-9.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES stated that no one indicator gives a complete view of what constitutes a fair commitment and proposed that each party provide an explanation of its commitment using its own yardstick.
MEXICO said he looked forward to using the CDM to supplement national efforts to shift from slash-and-burn techniques, which are responsible for loss of forest cover, to sustainable technologies that would have a positive impact on climate change.
NEW ZEALAND said their interpretation of the text on positive lists meant that any renewable energy project in major developing country would be additional and that they preferred the option of no lists.
Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, AND URUGUAY, said real progress would not be possible without properly addressing finance issues and called for building flexibility for developing countries into the procedures of the transparency framework and the implementation and compliance committee.
 In the morning session on mitigation, on the sub-section on long-term and global aspects, SOUTH AFRICA stressed a long-term goal should be consistent with what is required by science, and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the goal should be to keep the temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
Bangladesh, with the EU and Canada, supported the extension of the LEG 92s mandate, and highlighted complementarity between the LDC Fund and the SCCF.
AUSTRALIA recommended a platform for observers to report and comment on specific outcomes and a forum for observers to provide input to the COP high-level segments.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by others, requested background material and updates as a basis for negotiating text.
SPAIN called for progress on developing a process of technology transfer and efforts to address the issue of public awareness and education.
KUWAIT and CHINA raised concerns about holding joint meetings.
ARGENTINA expressed concern at the 93hasty 94 \t\tadoption of an amendment to Annex I of the London Protocol to allow for \t\tCCS in sub-seabed geological formations.
CHINA suggested joint consultations between APA work on NDC guidance, and SBI and SBSTA work on information regarding finance.
Noting it had sought “considerable flexibility” and recognizing flexibility by other parties, the EU suggested that the initial capitalization of the GCF and the Lima Call for Climate Action provide a good direction towards an ambitious agreement in Paris.
The US supported observer and private sector engagement with the SCF and the GEF.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-LCA and said that parties should strive to have a set of draft decisions by the end of the week.
ICELAND said improvements to degraded land should be included in the list of human-induced activities.
JAPAN opposed addressing the flow of climate finance under workstream 2.
CHINA emphasized that the current pledges are not sufficient.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed commitment to being part of a durable, fair, effective and comprehensive outcome with the participation of all major economies.
The \t\tG-77/CHINA and the AFRICAN GROUP said an agreement on the AWG 92s \t\ttimetable is necessary given the time required for ratification.
The IPCC will convene three workshops for the further development of the Guidelines for National GHG Inventories on the following topics: sources and removal by sinks of greenhouse gases from land use and forestry (Sao Jos ef bf bd dos Campos, Sao Paulo, 21-22 March 1996); emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes (Abingdon, UK, 29-30 March 1996); and, methane emissions from rice cultivation (Bangkok, Thailand, 30 April - 2 May 1996).
Japan, Singapore and the EU said the IMO and ICAO are the suitable places to address these issues.
SWITZERLAND proposed that the Secretariat maintain a \t\tmethodologies website.
The EU said it did not “imagine” the ADP continuing beyond Paris.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, noted missing elements from the Chair’s outcome note and called for working on the basis of the August negotiating text.
  The G-77/CHINA highlighted that response measures must be seen in the broader context of sustainable development, including the Rio+20 outcome, and should include qualitative and quantitative assessments in their design and implementation phase that address socio-economic consequences.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for equal consideration of all SBSTA agenda items and to finish work on REDD+.
On the composition of the Executive Board, delegates agreed to additional text proposed by SAMOA whereby the COP/ MOP will elect an alternate for each member of the Board.
Highlighting the need for draft text on IAR, AUSTRALIA called for making use of existing COP guidance and reviewing the extent to which parties have achieved quantified economy wide emission reduction targets.
NEW ZEALAND called on parties to resolve tensions between a “deep and fluid” carbon market and the use of markets to rectify other problems.
JAPAN asked whether unilaterally-funded projects were consistent with the concept of CDM.
ARGENTINA cautioned against prejudging SBSTA discussions on LULUCF and requested that various approaches be referenced in addition to markets.
CANADA proposed using a table with parties’ targets expressed in terms of multiple base years.
IRELAND, ITALY, GERMANY and SLOVENIA stressed domestic action as the main means of meeting Protocol commitments.
The US further objected to the language used in the Chair\'s report on the work of AG13.
One such example is the guidance on information and accounting related to mitigation, which is mandated to happen in 2028, even if some groups, such as AOSIS, felt that this will come too late.
CHINA, with IRAN, KUWAIT, BRAZIL and ARGENTINA said it was inappropriate to give ERTs, a simple fact finding body, a triggering role.
The US accepted the proposed structure of one body with two branches and underlined the US focus on commitments rather than on Parties.
The PHILIPPINES called for information on technology transfer activities in Annex I communications.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to simplify procedures for financial support for NAP implementation.
LIBERIA stressed the vulnerability of LDCs and outlined his country’s energy policy, which includes a low-emissions development path.
BRAZIL supported the AOSIS text but cautioned that too many details may lead to inefficiencies.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the issue of surplus AAUs is not linked to the discussion of numbers and should only be considered after 2012, when the results of the first commitment period are known.
With the AFRICAN GROUP, he lamented lack of concrete activities on MOI from developed countries.
Identifying the need for a legal outcome from both the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP tracks, BRAZIL supported providing a space for discussing this issue.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized that progress in the negotiations should be made based on COP 15’s outcomes, including the Copenhagen Accord, and expressed conviction that agreement can be reached at COP 16.
The EU called for referencing human rights, while ZAMBIA expressed discomfort with such a reference.
CHINA, supported by KUWAIT and others, said a facilitator would not be able to visit and confer with all Parties.
CHINA said the lack of national communications also makes it premature to review adequacy of commitments.
AOSIS called for assessing whether ambition is in line with the 1.5 or 2 c2 b0C limit.
Supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, MEXICO proposed changing reference to e2 80 9cdeveloped parties e2 80 9d in paragraph 132.1 to e2 80 9call parties, e2 80 9d noting that both developed and developing countries need to address barriers to technology transfer.
Brazil, the Philippines, Cuba, India, China, Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), and others emphasized the importance of the Convention’s principles and commitments in defining a shared vision.
Echoing the same concerns, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said the group reserves its right to bring up these issues at the next SBI meeting.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, The Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, called on developed country parties to commit to QELROs to reduce emissions by at least 40-50% below 1990 levels by 2020 and at least 25-40% by 2017.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the Dialogue’s political outcome should reaffirm the 1.5 c2 b0C goal, and, supported by INDIA, urged it to recognize the emissions and finance gaps.
The African Group emphasized equal treatment of adaptation and mitigation, and the special needs of Africa, small island developing states (SIDS) and the LDCs.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with BOLIVIA, highlighted traditional knowledge.
PANAMA said adaptation should be given the same status as mitigation under the UNFCCC.
BRAZIL urged parties to clarify assumptions associated with procedures for factoring out, and, along with TUVALU, noted that caps or discount factors could be applied to different accounting strategies.
Liechtenstein, for the EIG, said a political declaration would be an appropriate outcome of the Talanoa Dialogue.
94 CANADA reaffirmed its commitment to \t\tthe Protocol and called for a global solution.
 Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Malcolm Ridout (UK).
SPAIN highlighted \t\t\tadaptation as a crucial issue beyond 2012.
The EU highlighted, inter alia, benefits of low-carbon development strategies, private sector investment and carbon markets.
Highlighting the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities as well as Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I further commitments), Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to prioritize the AWG-KP’s work.
The US noted the relationship between risk reduction and adaptation, and proposed, with the EU, consolidating the section on risk.
 \t\t \t\tRegarding the status of \t\tUNFCCC parties at Protocol informal consultations, delegates were unable \t\tto agree on a precise legal position on their status, with views \t\texpressed by the EU on one side and AUSTRALIA and the US on the other.
Noting the state of the text, the EU said it was too early to determine its status as a decision.
The LDCs, New Zealand, Norway, the US and Canada suggested the Secretariat could prepare a synthesis report or other paper as input to the workshop, while the Arab Group considered this premature.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for formalizing pledges made in the Copenhagen Accord and reaffirmed in Cancun.
On pre-2020 ambition, the G-77/CHINA stressed that work should continue until the ambition gap is closed.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern over taking a broad view of the issue.
NORWAY stressed the need for annual national inventories and related capacity building.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NORWAY, the EU and Belize, for AOSIS, proposed structuring discussions around clusters, as in the technical paper.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: The Chair distributed a draft text compiling the EU and G-77/CHINA proposals on non-Annex I communications.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported the establishment of the contact group but said it should not draw attention away from the AWG-KP negotiations.
TUVALU proposed referring to decision 11/CP.7 (LULUCF).
MALAYSIA expressed regret over the continued discussion on voluntary commitments.
The EU suggested strengthening information requirements to provide clarity on ambition, including on: LULUCF; market mechanisms; and methodologies for calculating business as usual baselines.
JAPAN supported global reductions of 50% by 2050.
COSTA RICA underscored the importance of early action and, with BRAZIL, highlighted demonstration activities, as well as regional networks and south-south partnerships.
She said the EU had expressed interest in a possible qualitative ceiling, and reported that India and the US were conducting consultations on fungibility, AAs and the composition of the Executive Board.
AUSTRALIA said force majeure is key to creating incentives to include the land sector.
 \t\tOn the Secretariat ef bf bds role, the EU encouraged provision of legal advice \t\tand a neutral forum for parties.
ICELAND pledged a 30% reduction in a joint effort with the EU, and emphasized its participation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Reminding delegates that negotiations on the text should begin next week, SAUDI ARABIA called for preparing a further consolidated text as soon as possible.
 WGII Co-Chair Chris Field (US) reported on this Expert Meeting, held in Dublin, Ireland from 27-29 May 2015 (IPCC.XLII/INF.12, Corr.2).
On response measures, the LDCs, VENEZUELA, ARGENTINA and the UAE, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and CANADA, variously supported a mechanism, institution or permanent forum.
New Zealand, supported by the UK, the US, Norway, and Switzerland, objected, noting that: such a statement was beyond the scope of the Refinement; the Panel did not yet know whether such a statement would prove to be true; and the 2019 Refinement was meant for inventory compilers and not policymakers.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed to identify: how to anchor the existing finance mechanism and MRV system into the new agreement; the scale of resources required to keep temperature rise below e2 80 9cour goal e2 80 9d; who contributes and how; and sources of finance.
The EU emphasized its proposals on baselines and public participation in the CDM.
The US recognized the need for scaled-up financial support while also calling for progress on the substance of required adaptation actions.
The G-77/CHINA expressed preference for, inter alia: delineating mandates clearly; implementing the principle of comprehensiveness; limiting the enforcement branch 92s mandate to Annex I Parties; and ensuring that the enforcement branch only address issues following specific requests.
AOSIS and the UMBRELLA GROUP called for focused submissions.
KYRGYZSTAN and TAJIKISTAN underlined the importance of addressing mountain ecosystems.
The PHILIPPINES stressed \t\tthe need for full-cost financial support.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, the US and JAPAN, stressed the importance of ex ante and ex post transparency and accountability, emphasizing the need for: providing clarity to predict and quantify the impacts of parties’ commitments; understanding the methods used by parties to track their efforts; and tracking impacts and learning lessons to enhance actions.
On the provisional agenda (FCCC/ CP/2002/1, Add.1 and Add.2), the G-77/CHINA urged exclusion of Canada 92s proposal for a decision on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 7.4 (registries) in relation to cleaner energy exports.
AUSTRALIA noted they could support the draft conclusions if the workshop was combined with one on implementation of Decision 1/CP.10 (Buenos Aires programme of work on adaptation and response measures).
The US said the work programme should highlight activities to reduce loss and damage, and supported country-driven risk reduction activities.
MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA, requested deletion of the entire section on flexibility.
Nepal, for LDCs, warned that international cooperative initiatives cannot replace mid- and long-term commitments.
He called for careful consideration of “donor/recipient dynamics” and proposed the use of the terms “provider/user.” NORWAY asked for their proposal on auctioning AAUs to be reflected in the main text and not only in the annex.
BRAZIL stressed international cooperation to support the urgent implementation of adaptation actions.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), called for a full set of decisions to provide rules, guidelines and procedures to implement actions on forests.
SAUDI ARABIA argued for a draft decision requesting the Secretariat to analyse the adverse effects of P&amp;Ms on developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA and TUVALU supported focusing on the Protocol’s current text, and CHINA highlighted the limited and technical nature of the required changes.
URUGUAY called for further definition and contact group discussions.
JAPAN emphasized that there was no guarantee that the US would agree to the assumed level, warning this would undermine the political durability of the process.
The EU said that only generic issues relating to trade in cleaner energy should be discussed.
AUSTRALIA called for country-driven mechanisms.
The US said MRV should not be confined to NAMAs themselves, but should also take into account their context to understand the net results and the direction of global emissions.
The G-77/CHINA called for increased efficiency, expeditious use of resources, and geographical and gender balance in the Secretariat, and supported the inclusion of Protocol-related activities in the Secretariat 92s core budget.
The EIG, with GEORGIA, said not all items needed submissions, and suggested item 6 (GST) could have submissions and a technical paper.
IRAN, on behalf of the Asian Group, said his group has a nominee and had also asked for a Vice Presidency of the COP.
BELARUS proposed the inclusion of marsh rehabilitation in the second commitment period.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, \t\t\tproposed adding language on “25-40% greenhouse gas emissions \t\t\treductions below 1990 levels” for Annex I parties.
The EU does not yet have a position on gas-by-gas or Greenhouse Warming Potential approaches to various greenhouse gases.
INDIA requested textual changes to make the text more consistent with the Convention, changes to the sections on NAMAs and on financial resources and investment.
SAUDI ARABIA preferred a contact group.
The final decision, inter alia: approves the programme budget for 2000-2001, amounting to US$25,286,000; approves a contingency fund in case the UN General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the regular UN budget; requests the Executive Secretary to report to COP-6 on the income and budget performance, and propose any adjustments that might be needed; and authorizes the Executive Secretary to incur additional expenses to offset part of the costs of activities arising from the preparatory process leading to COP-6.
The EU noted the importance of discussing HFCs and bunker fuels, and AUSTRALIA, with MALAWI, proposed establishing a drafting group on bunker fuels.
On the carryover of AAUs, SOUTH AFRICA highlighted several options: allowing carryover of x% of AAUs; adopting stricter emission reduction targets to absorb the surplus; and putting AAUs in a strategic reserve.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by EGYPT, opposed referring to parliamentarians and legislators, saying that their participation and role should be considered by each party according to its national circumstances and legal framework.
INDIA, supported by BRAZIL, and opposed by the US, suggested compiling parties e2 80 99 submissions as the basis for a draft decision.
Supported by BRAZIL, INDIA opposed sectoral approaches, saying they could lead to benchmarking and adversely affect developing countries’ economic growth.
Panama, for COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), stressed the need to improve the effectiveness of REDD+ finance and engaging the private sector.
SWITZERLAND noted that adaptation communications should be based on national planning and have buy-in.
POLAND suggested that additional GHGs could be included at a later stage.
AOSIS \t\trequested studies showing emission pathways leading to temperature \t\tincreases below 2 b0C from pre-industrial levels, and Saudi Arabia stated \t\tthat spillover effects for developing countries of Annex I mitigation \t\tpolicies and measures must be analyzed.
Delegates also discussed a proposal by AUSTRALIA to avoid scheduling meetings, including workshops and pre-sessionals, that might result in a “three week block” of back-to-back events.
Chair Thorgeirsson asked Jim Penman (UK) to facilitate informal consultations to prepare draft conclusions and a possible draft decision on this matter.
AOSIS proposed including reference to the CDM project cycle regarding a potential bottleneck in funding for the AF and BANGLADESH stressed the importance of ensuring funding.
 South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with COSTA RICA and TURKEY, said a shared vision should cover the four building blocks.
ARGENTINA said emissions trading was an innovative solution to market failure.
The US, Norway, Mexico and others supported removing the reference stating that Rio+20 is a broader “political” document than the Durban Platform and that “a lack of clarity” would not be beneficial.
The EU indicated that the critical moment to \t\ttake action on climate change is building and stressed the importance of \t\tensuring an adequate level of global action.
Opening the resumed session of AWG-LCA 14, AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) called on parties to work on developing draft decision text on all the elements under the AWG-LCA.
CHINA emphasized the importance of the CGE in providing technical assistance.
INDIA noted that a reference to low-carbon strategies should be balanced with a reference to the development imperative.
The EU, South Africa, Australia, and Colombia, for AILAC, stressed the need for quantifiability of NDCs.
 JAPAN expressed disappointment that no agreement was reached, but proposed that further negotiations be conducted during the intersessional period prior to the October AGBM meeting.
The UK explained that the burden of proof regarding eligibility was on the shoulders of the Party submitting its inventory, yet in the case of a Party challenging another Party, it was up to the challenger to prove its case.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, said the conclusions failed to make a clear reference to the COP-7 decision on adverse effects (5/CP.7), and stressed the importance of reflecting views of implementation progress on wider activities.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, preferred working from existing informal notes, saying that too few items are mature enough for a single progress document.
NEW ZEALAND questioned if the options can be combined, saying one is general and the other is specific.
SAMOA said that due process must be balanced with the interest of the community to have issues settled.
BRAZIL stressed scaling up actions and linkages to MOI.
The Gambia, for LDCs, said that although integration of adaptation into development planning is important, implementation of NAPAs must not be delayed by this process.
The EU advocated determining the most appropriate body to take work forward on individual issues when the AWG-LCA closes in Doha, and avoiding transferring them to the ADP.
The G-77/China, with Brazil, Samoa and Jamaica, and opposed by the US and Canada, said assigned amounts (AAs) were fixed.
TUVALU said further methodological work is needed on degradation and demand-side measures.
JAPAN said that adaptation is an important issue but expressed \t\tconcern over the discussions underway on decision 5/CP.7.
On Timing and Procedures, the EU said the trial inventory review period under the FCCC would provide useful guidance for the proposed one-year time frame.
The PHILIPPINES underscored that MRV is “meaningless without compliance” and called for a technical panel on comparability.
After brief consultations, the Chair announced that informal consultations on the LDC Fund would be held parallel to a contact group on the Special Climate Change Fund.
AUSTRALIA said the guidelines may be applicable to Protocol inventories.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, on behalf of the AFRICAN GROUP, called for strengthening the mandate of the NWP and further engage the region into the CDM process.
AUSTRALIA noted \t\tthe need for the text to show that the range of technical options may be \t\tgreater than those that could be used legally.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 notes that the amount of funding available for the climate change focal area was reduced in the GEF’s sixth replenishment period, and that the allocation of some countries, including some LDCs, SIDS, and African states, has decreased as a consequence;
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to avoid lengthy discussions on this issue.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA agreed with the focus on Protocol Article 3.9 but, supported by others, called for also considering forest issues and REDD.
The EU, Switzerland, and Canada indicated commitment to scaling up climate finance to the US$100 billion goal by 2020.
He also demanded the immediate ratification of the Protocol by Australia, Canada, Russia, and the US.
The US stated that movement is only possible with balanced package and highlighted the need to improve text on sub-paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Bali Action Plan (mitigation by developing countries).
He suggested deleting reference to mobilization of climate finance e2 80 9cas a means to stay below the long-term temperature limit, e2 80 9d and, opposed by the AFRICAN GROUP, to e2 80 9cadequate and predictable e2 80 9d funding for adaptation.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need to deliver on pre-2020 action and support, including through the facilitative dialogue on action and support.
The G-77/CHINA opposed additional workshops, regardless of their TORs, citing budgetary constraints and the need for "a total discussion" on the implementation of decision 13/CP.7.
 , Germany, supported by France and the US, called for reporting all non-CO2 emissions from non-combustion in the energy sector.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the Asian Group, and supported by INDIA, PAKISTAN, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA, KUWAIT and IRAN, stated that, on the election of the Vice-Chair, they had asked for a guarantee to honor the UN principle of geographical rotation after the next term, but this had been rejected.
 \t\tChristine Copley, World Coal Institute, UK, spoke on the prospects for \t\tcoal in the context of sustainable development.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with proposals to link NAMAs with the carbon market and noted that MRV of NAMA support by developed countries requires more consideration.
ARGENTINA said private funding should be complementary to public funding.
NIGERIA called for inclusion of Africa.
 On this issue, BRAZIL reiterated the importance of the CDM in promoting sustainable development and proposed that definition of forests in exhaustion included in Annex 3 of the CDM Executive Board 50’s proposed agenda should be used as a basis of discussion.
The UMBRELLA GROUP also called for biennial streamlined communications with information on implementation of issues including: targets and/or actions; emissions impacts; methodologies; provision or receipt of finance, technology and capacity building support; and the use of international trading and offsets.
NIGERIA identified the need for the intergovernmental process to continue when the ministers arrive, warning against repeating “a previous situation” where parties end up in separate rooms.
The G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed text on the need to minimize the adverse effects of Annex I Parties.
The US preferred treating bunker emissions separately from national inventories, which the EU said results in no direct incentives to limit or reduce bunker emissions.
The LMDCs, opposed by the EU, suggested that a paragraph on identifying policy options differentiate between implementation in developed countries and support to overcome barriers to implementation in developing countries.
Tuvalu, supported by the US and \t\t\tSudan, opposed a statement indicating that such reductions are \t\t\tpermanent, and WGIII removed that language.
BRAZIL suggested that each party submit a contribution for a five-year term and an indicative contribution for the subsequent term.
On reporting of the Committee\'s work, the US queried the frequency, form and content of reports to the COP.
AOSIS said the Kyoto Protocol rules should be the starting point on which all parties should build.
On textual amendments, several parties supported retaining text on the first commitment period and adding new text on the second, while CANADA noted this may become cumbersome, and NEW ZEALAND proposed a case-by-case approach.
GERMANY proposed referring to the declaration as the “Geneva Declaration.”
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA said the Co-Chairs’ text does not accurately represent the discussions from ADP 2-10.
The US underscored that the per capita gross domestic product of economies benefiting from fossil fuel extraction “is well within the range of developed countries” and that discussions should focus on the most vulnerable.
ZAMBIA criticized some Annex I Parties for saying they are not legally bound to return to 1990 GHG levels.
The US said a long-term goal should be global, realistic, consistent with recent changes in economic development, based on science and aspirational.
AOSIS, with the African Group, highlighted the need for adaptation surcharges to be assessed against all the Protocol mechanisms.
COSTA RICA described the shared vision as the destination with the building blocks determining how to get there.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to define the boundaries of a work plan and possible forum and, with CANADA and the US, said the current text is unbalanced.
ZAMBIA suggested that the tables should indicate those parties that are exceeding or have exceeded their first commitment period targets.
AOSIS responded that the COP would make a decision on that, and that lessons learned from past review processes should be taken into account.
On small-scale projects, INDIA \t\tnoted COP/MOP 1 92s request for a simpler methodology.
Addressing the Delhi Declaration, ITALY said it should consider action beyond 2012.
The G-77/CHINA expressed disappointment at the low level of financial resources provided by Annex I Parties, stressing that action so far has been symbolic.
Stressing that a long-term goal is crucial, the EU acknowledged progress has been made on agreement in the MEF to limit warming to not more than 2°C, as well as on the concept of peaking and moving toward low-carbon economies.
IRELAND (on behalf of the EU), UZBEKISTAN and SWITZERLAND also made submissions (FCCC/AG13/1997/ Misc.1).
Following requests by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, the US and EU, informal consultations were held on the agenda of the workshop on synergies scheduled for 2-4 July 2003, in Espoo, Finland.
 \t\t\tArtur Runge-Metzger and Jean-Arnold Vinois, European Commission, \t\t\tdiscussed the EU’s policy package integrating climate and energy \t\t\tpolicies, noting the EU’s goals for 2020, and its energy efficiency \t\t\taction plan.
CHINA said capacity building should be "of, for and in" the developing country.
AOSIS said capacity building was a dynamic and iterative process that would be augmented by experiences from implementing other aspects of the FCCC.
NEW ZEALAND supported discussions on legal form, progress on MRV and ICA, and a clear signal on markets and the private sector’s key role.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT expressed concern about the COP’s failure to adopt the rules of procedure and said that a compromise must be reached soon.
The EU expressed concern that the Co-Chairs’ text contained no alternatives.
The EU underlined the need to increase resources for technical reviews and annual inventories.
Regarding the poor responses to the technology needs survey, the G-77/CHINA explained that this can be attributed to the absence of specific frameworks for the implementation of the Convention.
BOLIVIA also noted that Parties may want to elaborate sources and sectors listed in Annex A of the Protocol, as they may want to account for other sources not already included.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said the COP decision should focus on parameters and timelines for the phase after Durban, including nominations and Board composition.
 Erasmia Kitou (EU) will consult informally.
Drawing attention to the recently established Durban Forum for in-depth discussion on capacity building, the US, the EU and other developed countries opposed having a spin-off group.
The US said the integrity of the emissions trading system would be founded on monitoring and reporting under Protocol Articles 5 and 7 and the existence of registries.
 \t\tSwitzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group and supported by the \t\tInternational Emissions Trading Association (IETA), proposed an \t\tassessment of the CDM by COP/MOP 4.
VENEZUELA noted her country’s formal reservation to Decision 1/CP.17 in Durban and highlighted that developed countries had already “violated” the Durban package by not putting on the table their QELROs for the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
On decision paragraphs regarding giving effect to the agreement, specifically on efforts of all actors, BOLIVIA opposed juxtaposing local communities and indigenous peoples with the private sector.
VENEZUELA, supported by BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, CUBA, NICARAGUA, PERU, GHANA and others, said the CDM’s future was contingent on a second commitment period, and urged ambitious QELROs from Annex I parties.
On criteria and guiding principles, the EU called for inclusion of further criteria and a guiding principle emphasizing emissions reduction.
On attendance of the meetings, delegates agreed to a proposal by SAMOA opening attendance to stakeholders.
The G-77/CHINA proposed alternative language from Decision 3/CP.3 on undertaking a process.
Viet Nam, for ASEAN, and INDONESIA highlighted stress-tolerant crop varieties, alternate wetting and drying in rice cultivation, and integrated cropping calendars.
BURKINA FASO, for the AFRICA GROUP, underscored the high expectations of the international community that COP-7 will be a success.
The PHILIPPINES cautioned against applying the notion of respective capabilities to developed countries’ commitments.
SWITZERLAND stressed that there is no good unique indicator that can take into account national circumstances and said that the logical starting point of the discussion is agreement on the quantity to differentiate.
The EU, opposed by the LDCs, suggested addressing the mitigation cycle in the mitigation section, and considering the adaptation and finance cycles in those sections.
The LMDCs, supported by MALAYSIA, proposed stressing the need for developed countries, the operating entities of the financial mechanism and any other organizations in a position to do so, to provide enhanced support.
The US expressed discomfort with the evidence base.
SENEGAL, BOLIVIA, BURKINA FASO and THAILAND stressed the importance of small-scale projects that benefit local communities.
BRAZIL said LULUCF rules should be improved but not fundamentally changed.
BANGLADESH said means of implementation are key for the “Paris Protocol.” NAURU highlighted, inter alia, identification of sources, and scaling up provision of, climate finance.
The US said flexibility could only be discussed in the context of common procedures.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that her country needs more than a Protocol amendment from Copenhagen.
The EU said any reference to Article 4 (joint fulfillment) should be bracketed.
 While environmental NGOs agreed with AOSIS that the mandate for negotiations was \'soft\' at best, they vowed to fight for the Toronto Target and the AOSIS protocol during the upcoming two years of negotiations.
SWITZERLAND and CANADA called for expedited funding for national communications.
JAPAN said the policies and measures that could be recommended by the compliance body would depend on the future work of the SBI and SBSTA on policies and measures, in particular in relation to best practices.
The US said GEF had made an effort to meet the needs of FCCC Parties and expressed disappointment at the fact that the review of the financial mechanism had not concluded.
On Annex I communications, the US recommended that only Part I (general description of guidelines) be negotiated through a contact group and adopted during COP-5.
On  , New Zealand, supported by the EU, but opposed by the G-77/China, expressed preference for adopting conclusions rather than a decision.
AUSTRALIA, BRAZIL, NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN, CHINA, SINGAPORE, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, AOSIS and several others opposed both multiplication and discount factors.
ARGENTINA said the list should be reclassified into three or four main categories, with specific issues included as examples.
CHINA suggested having either two five-year commitment periods or one eight-year commitment period.
Opposed by the US and EU, it suggested using the proposal as the basis for discussion.
NORWAY said limiting a comprehensive use of sinks limits a comprehensive policy approach and creates uncertainties to countries willing to undertake ambitious commitments.
SOUTH AFRICA and NORWAY called for the temperature goal to be reflected in the general section.
 SAUDI ARABIA, NORWAY, the EU, JAPAN and others supported including CCS under the CDM.
On adverse effects of climate change, and supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, he advocated starting with each Party\'s own assessment of its vulnerability in initial national communications.
The US said it was not in a position to provide funding for this \t\tand could not guarantee participation.
The EU emphasized the role of P&amp;Ms in compliance action plans and, opposed by Australia and Chile, advocated an open-ended list of facilitation consequences.
AUSTRALIA noted that the economic downturn has a far greater impact on exporting economies than climate policy, and underscored the need for long-term planning for exporting economies.
On mitigation (Article 3), the EU, supported by Colombia, for AILAC, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the US called for clarifying the date for the submission of contributions.
The EU stressed the need for agreement on standardized baselines and expressed willingness to consider continuation of activities under the NWP.
Chile, for the ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STATES (AILAC) urged progress on market and non-market approaches.
The US called for identifying overlapping concepts across sections.
In the evening, the UNFCCC Secretariat held an information event on the UN Climate Summit, which took place on 23 September in New York, US.
On developing country mitigation, the US proposed bracketing the entire section and inserting words “option 1.” He called for inserting “option 2” consisting of “alternatives suggested by parties,” and highlighted that this gives a “clear sense of different ways to think about this problem” and the need for “fundamental revisions.”
JAPAN cautioned against creating new bureaucratic organizations, noting the need to reconsider the role and scope of the existing funds under the Convention and Protocol in order to avoid duplication.
The G-77/CHINA, with other non-Annex I Parties, advocated the adoption of two draft decisions: one on Article 4.8 and 4.9 and another on Article 3.14.
The EU, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND highlighted related proposals for Protocol amendments, as well as links with adaptation and finance discussions under the AWG-LCA.
On Principles, AUSTRALIA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND preferred that these not be expressly provided for in the text.
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed reservations with the facilitator’s note.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND questioned the propriety of allocating one full day to support, noting this is only one of the areas needing further discussion.
The PHILIPPINES supported a top-down approach to setting science-based targets, with the objective of not exceeding a 1.5°C temperature increase.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA said he would provide input during the roundtable discussion \t\tscheduled for Tuesday morning, 24 May 2005.
AUSTRALIA reiterated its US$1 million pledge to the trust fund for participation.
The EU, Papua New Guinea and others supported a workshop before Durban, while Brazil, supported by Suriname and others, suggested a technical expert group, given the technical expertise required for certain issues to be addressed.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported a full carbon accounting system that would not require the listing of activities, while COLOMBIA expressed concern with an activity-based approach and proposed a symmetrical approach.
The EU said adaptation measures should be integrated into national, regional and local planning.
Following the submission \t\tof EU and G-77/China proposals for inclusions to a draft COP decision, \t\tthe Co-Chairs prepared a compilation text that parties then added to but \t\tdid not negotiate.
NORWAY, opposed by MEXICO, suggested its deletion, saying the issue was captured elsewhere.
AOSIS stressed the importance of the part on review of shared vision.
\t\tHighlighting the spirit of the Marrakesh Accords, the EU, Russia and \t\tothers proposed that JI projects should be able to use CDM 92s designated \t\toperational entities, project design document and methodologies.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said that provision of financial resources must be guided by developing countries’ priorities, which he said should be contained in the overarching principle.
COLOMBIA drew the attention of donor countries to the fund for developing country participation and underscored its importance in light of the move to Bonn.
SAUDI ARABIA, with QATAR, said it would support the Co-Chairs\' amended text, if FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse impacts) were included.
The UMBRELLA GROUP stressed critically relevant work on the AWG-LCA, the Article 9 review and REDD, and proposed joint sessions for the two AWGs.
The US said the staged approach would not be applicable in all cases since the screening process may directly lead to an enforcement process.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that the fourth review should be a full review of the financial mechanism and not just a review of the operating entity.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo called for references to principles and provisions of the Convention.
On adaptation, the G-77/CHINA lamented that many proposals were missing from the text.
On the structure of work, the US called for a spin-off group.
On the facilitative branch, JAPAN put forward a proposal intended to reflect the language in the Bonn Agreements on the type of questions of implementation to be addressed.
Stressing the importance of sustained funding for regional action plans, the G-77/CHINA suggested that guidance on this issue should be given to the GEF.
Nepal, for the LDCs, stressed the need for deep cuts in GHG emissions to avoid irreversible impacts of climate change, mostly suffered by LDCs, and called for prioritization of MOI.
Discussions \t\tcentered on: additional criteria for the admittance of organizations, as \t\tsuggested by the Netherlands, the need for any admission policy to be \t\tconsistent with the principles of the IPCC, as noted by China, and the \t\trole of observer organizations in facilitating transparency and \t\tconfidence in organizations, as noted by Hungary, the US and others.
The US proposed a revised title referring to cooperation, facilitation and Article 2.1(b) (cooperation on P&amp;Ms).
SENEGAL stated that market mechanisms and actions in the land-use sector should contribute to the sustainable development of the host countries.
CHINA proposed a separate chapter in the text on emission reduction commitments by developed countries.
SWITZERLAND noted concern over the high reliance on voluntary contributions to priority activities in the core budget.
LICHTENSTEIN suggested that the agreement should significantly contribute to the achievement of the post-2015 development agenda.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 recognizes the general positive assessment of the performance of the GEF, but notes that the LDCs and SIDS still experience challenges in accessing GEF resources;
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 decides that the Executive Committee shall be composed of the following, taking into account the goal of gender balance, 10 members from Annex I parties and 10 members from non-Annex I parties, comprising two members each from the African, Asia-Pacific, and the Latin American and Caribbean States, one member from SIDS, one member from LDCs, and two additional non-Annex I members;
The MARSHALL ISLANDS urged discontinuation of temporary carbon storage projects under AIJ.
The G-77/CHINA supported a draft COP \t\tdecision on monitoring capacity building, while the EU, JAPAN and US \t\tsaid a decision was unnecessary and proposed adopting only SBI \t\tconclusions.
The EU called for agreement in Cancún on a 50% reduction in deforestation by 2020 and halting global forest loss by 2030.
Uganda, with Malawi, noted the need for improved access to funding for the LDCs.
New Zealand, with the US, argued that a JI project should be subject to CDM-type scrutiny only where a Party does not comply with Articles 5 and 7, and where non-compliance with both articles impacts the project.
Barbados, for AOSIS, with Colombia, for Chile, Peru, Costa Rica and Guatemala, and others, supported a political process covering the scaling up and mobilization of climate finance, as well as an intensified and more structured work under the Convention, focusing on sources and options for mobilizing climate finance in the short, medium and long term.
The ADP Co-Chairs proposed informal discussions on finance continue coordinated by Gary William Theseira, Malaysia, and Christo Artusio, US.
BANGLADESH said his country is in the initial stages of developing NAMAs and that mitigation action will be focused on energy transformation and consumption, LULUCF and industry.
KIRIBATI called for a framework that ensures that vulnerable countries have access to financing to address the adverse affects of climate change.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed that the Protocol has established the institutional and governance structures that “are and must remain at the heart of the climate regime.” He called for extending the share of proceeds and broadening the scope of eligible LULUCF activities under the CDM.
The EU said the upcoming workshop should consider, inter alia, defining 93best practices 94 and assessing the extent to which international cooperation may enhance effectiveness of policies and measures.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA and others, supported maintaining the preamble, saying it was aimed at identifying the gaps in implementation.
The US stressed adequate consideration of natural climate variability, feedbacks and drivers other than climate change, and the consistent treatment of uncertainty, noting that the sources and quantification of uncertainty should be explicitly addressed within each chapter.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested a capacity-building institute and earmarking GCF funds for capacity building.
The EU suggested avoiding “show me the money vs. show me the actions” arguments, and supported low carbon development strategies.
The US queried the budgetary implications of discontinuing the Expert Advisory Group and, supported by Belgium, suggested adding to the decision that Committee members could attend meetings virtually rather than in person to ease efforts to achieve quorum.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called on the Co-Chairs to ensure overall balance in the process, gradually deepening the substance and robustness of the text.
The GAMBIA urged the continuation of the Protocol beyond 2012.
CHINA called for a timetable to guide the \t\t\tAWG’s work.
Stavros Dimas, European \t\t\tCommissioner for the Environment, highlighted the 93historic 94 \t\t\tEuropean Council decisions, which he said will have an impact not \t\t\tonly climate change, but also on EU 92s energy security and economic \t\t\tcompetitiveness.
He welcomed the EU proposal on a possible protocol.
UKRAINE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION registered disappointment with the lack of adequate time to discuss sub-items 11 (a) and (b) on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8, and clarification of Section G (Article 3.7ter) of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
On the compilation of proposals for aggregate and individual figures for Annex I, CROATIA outlined plans to reduce absolute emissions by 33.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent during 2013-2020.
In the contact group on Thursday, 4 December, Co-Chair Rosland reported progress on the common reporting format and announced that the EU, with the help of Canada, would present reporting tables on sectoral background data for LULUCF based on IPCC GPG.
JAPAN outlined its proposed draft protocol, saying it relates to the Protocol’s deficiencies, including that the Kyoto Protocol only covers 30% of global emissions.
NEW ZEALAND distinguished between a common set of rules and full harmonization, saying the latter may not be possible for markets and LULUCF.
CHINA, with INDIA and others, stressed the importance of deep emission reductions by Annex I parties in the second commitment period for “a strong and robust carbon price.” INDIA warned that the proposed new mechanisms would “flood the market” with cheap credits.
Introducing her submission on the linkages between Article 8 and adjustments under Article 5, JAPAN highlighted the three stages of the inventory review process: initial check by the Secretariat; synthesis and assessment of inventories; and review by ERTs.
On Article 7.4, the G-77/CHINA said it was preparing a position paper.
NORWAY said that paragraphs referring to political parity between mitigation and adaptation, and implementation of existing actions and commitments are not necessary in the decision.
They also expressed views on representation in \t\tthe governing body and access to funding, with some delegates \t\temphasizing the need for a special focus on LDCs and SIDS.
On a point of order, several parties, including SOUTH AFRICA, EGYPT, NIGERIA, CUBA and CHINA, called for showing the text on the screen, and reflecting in it specific proposals by parties in order to, inter alia, enable understanding of parties e2 80 99 proposals and allow developing countries to participate as equals.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and AUSTRALIA stressed the role of the private sector and the advantages of issuer liability.
The US asked for clarification about the proposed technical panels.
The EU and the Marshall Islands expressed interest in discussing hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).
The US identified the need for data on physical determinants and socio-economic drivers of risk as well as on human vulnerability.
Maldives, for AOSIS, and Republic of Korea, for the EIG, lamented the lack of progress on strengthening the CDM.
BRAZIL proposed addressing definitions, followed by permanence.
In the US, the Clinton administration proposed domestic action on the Protocol, but not without generating considerable political resistance.
The US outlined plans to introduce a combination of legislative and regulatory measures on energy and other issues, following the collapse of efforts to introduce cap-and-trade legislation in the US Congress.
The US said that elements of the package—the AWG-LCA, the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, the Green Climate Fund, and the Durban Platform—offer a historic opportunity that it wants to support.
The EU stressed that a “one-size-fits-all” approach will not capture the diversity of needs.
The US supported Australia, but said that in the interest of a successful outcome at COP-6, the text should focus only on those issues addressed in Article 3.14.
AOSIS underscored the urgency of adaptation measures and, with several others, the need for a country-driven approach.
The EU welcomed Kyoto Protocol provisions for a review at COP/MOP-2 and for initiating consideration of second period commitments.
MAURITANIA noted that no objections were raised to the proposed agenda changes during informal consultations on 1 November.
NORWAY, supported by CANADA, said operational entities were a key element for CDM institutional structure.
He reaffirmed his commitment to jointly mobilize US$100 billion annually by 2020.
The EU suggested that the decision focus on: recognizing and establishing a process to narrow the ambition gap; an international, common rules-based accounting system; and a process to understand the assumptions underlying current pledges.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to address rules and commitments at the same time.
The US and JAPAN bracketed the list of activities aimed at improving the transparency, effectiveness and comparability of P&amp;Ms. JAPAN and the US, opposed by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, advocated deleting the link between P&amp;Ms and demonstrable progress.
ICELAND mentioned sectoral targets, including \t\tsectoral benchmarking.
India, the African Group, China and AOSIS stated that the private sector can play only a limited role.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said COP 22 must be a COP of implementation and action and supported suspending CMA 1 until 2018.
Supported by the US, the G-77/CHINA said adaptation efforts should be guided by the best available science and, where appropriate, traditional knowledge.
AUSTRALIA suggested reinsertion of those clusters, particularly the one on national schedules, and JAPAN expressed “gratitude” for indicating in a footnote that issues in a new sub-section on MRV will be discussed in the mitigation contact group as overarching issues.
PERU noted that many developed countries have expressed confidence in the work of the IPCC because these countries had financed its experts.
WGIII \t\t\tagreed to the US proposal, to note that CO2 represented 77% of total \t\t\tanthropogenic emissions in 2004 and to South Africa’s wording on \t\t\tconcentration increases since pre-industrial times.
The US, China, Saudi Arabia, Iran and others asked for more clarity on the working modalities, particularly chairing arrangements.
The EIG, supported by the EU, stated that the duration of the second commitment period should be eight years.
AUSTRALIA stressed that the key question is not 93whether 94 but 93how 94 additional sink activities could be included in the Protocol.
AOSIS and AILAC called for a clear definition of climate finance, with AILAC stressing this will help avoid double-counting.
TAJIKISTAN highlighted the need to tailor information to specific regions, sectors and groups of stakeholders.
The US cautioned that the new Bureau has to be involved in the scoping of the report.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by the US, proposed adding the "precautionary approach."
On Tuesday, 26 October, the contact group discussed proposals submitted by the EU and the G-77/China.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, drew attention to the need for all parties to participate in the existing transparency system and for extending the Lima work programme on gender.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more discussion time at the Forum.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) and supported the creation of a NAMA registry.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-KP, lamenting delay in adopting conclusions on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual emission reductions.
She said the group will comprise members from all regional groups and SIDS, and explained that she would report to the CMP President if any changes are required based on the findings of the legal review.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CANADA noted the need for information and expertise sharing and a resource centre for copyright-free material.
 The US stated that it was fully aware of the BM\'s provisions.
The EU suggested beginning with text on commitments.
BOLIVIA reported on the spin-off group on non-market issues, noting lack of agreement on this issue.
Welcoming developments in the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the EU said efforts under the aviation and shipping sectors should be taken into account during the global stocktake.
NORWAY, supported by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, called for a single objective relating to all greenhouse gases through the use of a “basket” approach containing as many greenhouse gases as possible.
AOSIS, Norway and the LDCs stressed that an ex ante assessment of INDCs is necessary to inform whether e2 80 9cwe are on the right track e2 80 9d to achieve the 2 c2 b0C goal, suggesting the Secretariat assess aggregate ambition.
SWITZERLAND requested more information on the potential of sectoral approaches.
On the way forward, in particular in relation to the work of the AWG-LCA, Spain, for the EU, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and JAPAN, urged for text reiterating the need for a coherent approach between the Convention and Protocol in relation to commitments by Annex I parties, as agreed by AWG-KP 6 (FCCC/KP/2008/8).
SOUTH AFRICA said that the markets required “legal, loud and long-term signals” from the AWG-KP, while also suggesting that long commitment periods lead to a lower level of ambition in the short-term.
BELARUS noted significant decoupling of its emissions and economic growth in 1995-2012, and highlighted energy conservation and efficiency improvements, and development of renewable energy sources.
TUVALU presented his proposal to give the Adaptation Fund Board the legal capacity to enter into certain legal agreements.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and CANADA underlined the CDM 92s role in advancing technology transfer to developing countries.
The EU supported this and highlighted that it offers the potential to clean up language in other paragraphs.
  Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Spain and the US presented.
 CANADA provided an update on the work of the Annex I Experts\' Group on the UNFCCC, formerly called the Joint OECD/IEA Project on National Communications.
BRAZIL said cooperative and  non-Annex I sectoral policies are not related to Annex I commitments and should be deleted.
Chair Stoycheva presented the interim financial performance for the biennium 2002-2003, which notes outstanding arrears of US$ 8.5 million and indicates that two-thirds of member States have not made their contributions for 2003.
KUWAIT proposed a glossary that explains what the various proposals mean.
HONDURAS stressed that the efforts made by developing countries are as important as those of Annex I countries.
 Sudan, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with slow progress in fulfilling the group’s mandate under Protocol Article 3.9 (further commitments).
The G-77/CHINA called for inclusion of migration, displacement, and planned relocation.
Two \t\ttexts were proposed, one from the EU and the other from the G-77/China.
UGANDA said those supporting its deletion were avoiding commitment.
BRAZIL observed that, although information gaps need to be filled, vulnerability and adaptation assessment are not mandatory in non-Annex I communications, meaning that national communications will not necessarily be the appropriate means to fill this gap.
SWITZERLAND called for discussions on sectoral and programmatic approaches, policy-based commitments and means for implementing, measuring, reporting and, when applicable, verifying actions in developed and developing countries.
In the section on designated operational entities, JAPAN, supported by several Parties, proposed adding references to "enhancements by sinks" in order to reflect the acceptance of afforestation and reforestation under the CDM in the Bonn Agreements.
BRAZIL and INDIA called for careful consideration of assumptions underlying scientific arguments.
The AFRICAN GROUP, SWITZERLAND, CHINA, \t\tINDIA, INDONESIA and TANZANIA underscored implementation of existing \t\tcommitments.
CHINA proposed focusing on “narrowing” the ambition gap, before “closing” it.
AUSTRALIA, with SWITZERLAND, said that inclusion of specific gases should be based on the principle of maximum coverage.
He said the contact group would have a mandate to complete work on unresolved issues within a short deadline and that open-ended drafting groups would be convened, chaired by “people we know well and trust.” Sudan, for the G-77/China, requested clarity on the deadline.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested mapping issues being addressed under other bodies to avoid duplication.
 \t\t\tOn eligibility criteria, the EU and the Environmental Integrity \t\t\tGroup (Switzerland, Mexico, Republic of Korea, Monaco and \t\t\tLiechtenstein) proposed that the criteria should cover non-Annex I \t\t\tparties, “especially those that are particularly vulnerable.” The \t\t\tG-77/China preferred the wording “developing country Parties to the \t\t\tKyoto Protocol that are particularly vulnerable.” The language \t\t\tagreed is similar to that used in Protocol Article 12.8, apart from \t\t\treference to the costs of adaptation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for agreement on a comprehensive adaptation framework and for developed countries to agree on new and additional financing that is accessible to all countries.
  This meeting will take place from 10-13 November 2009, in Washington, DC, US.
CUBA stressed the need to consider economic and social contexts when transferring technology.
On the proposed fee, the EU expressed a willingness to discuss ways to ensure the JISC’s financial sustainability and highlighted the need for transparency concerning the JISC’s needs.
e2 80 9d With the UK e2 80 99s proposed qualifier that risks e2 80 9cmay e2 80 9d arise, this text was approved.
PAKISTAN requested Parties to delete Turkey from Annexes I and II.
The UK, opposed by China and the US, proposed \t\talternative language on 93impacts which might be avoided for given ranges \t\tof temperature, noting that adaptation also needs to be taken into \t\taccount.
Belize, for SICA, highlighted the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
AOSIS and JAPAN said all countries will need to be involved in mitigation.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that supplementary actions cannot substitute mandated actions under the Convention and Protocol.
The EU noted that Article 7 discusses review of "implementation" of the Convention, not just targets.
GERMANY added a reference to the early 1997 IPCC discussion paper on the preparation of the TAR.
ZAMBIA called for enhanced deployment of existing technologies and, with the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, the removal of barriers to technology transfer, such as intellectual property rights.
The US said that there was benefit to seeking compatible approaches between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
 Regarding liaison offices, the US, supported by CANADA, proposed performing periodic visits rather than maintaining liaison offices in New York and Geneva.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group (a loose alliance of Annex I Parties that includes Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the Russian Federation) did not join the consensus.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for “breaking the deadlocks in time” for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, including ambitious emission reduction targets.
The US cautioned against focusing narrowly on the short term and suggested taking into account infrastructure and subsidies in costing.
After a proposal to delete “other parties in a position to do so” and hesitance about the term “finance gap,” parties deleted the paragraph and inserted slightly amended, agreed language, which notes the lack of funding in the LDC Fund (LDCF), and urges parties “and others” to contribute to “the LDCF and/or the GCF.” With other amendments, parties agreed to the draft conclusions.
PAKISTAN and others said existing brackets in the text do not reflect points of disagreement.
The delegates also accepted an EU proposal to merge paragraphs 10 (deliberations) and 11 (governance).
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, and CANADA highlighted lack of information on certain gases.
The CZECH REPUBLIC, with HUNGARY and SLOVENIA, supported the inclusion of Item 6 and noted that it could foster useful debate and dialogue.
MOROCCO said the CDM should not be used as a channel for exporting obsolete technologies from North to South.
The EU was represented by Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands.
Underlining he could speak to past and present emissions trends, but not to future policies, the US reported emissions have declined since 2005 while its GDP increased.
ARGENTINA stressed capacity building and proper resource allocation.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed the need for more specific information from parties to “chisel down into what the numbers actually mean.”
CANADA urged agreeing on guidelines that can immediately be employed by all parties.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA, cautioned against focusing on peripheral areas of convergence and avoiding core issues.
The African Group and India proposed deleting the cluster on plans and strategies, while Australia, the EU, New Zealand and Japan supported retaining it.
The final text includes reference to biodiversity, as supported by the EU, SWITZERLAND, THAILAND and NORWAY, and to sustainable forest management.
SWITZERLAND supported retaining its proposal that: JI may contribute up to 50% to meeting a country’s fulfillment of commitments; JI may begin in 2000; JI can also take place with non-Parties to the Protocol.
ALGERIA, ZAMBIA, SENEGAL, BENIN and others urged considering distribution of CDM projects and methodological issues.
 Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that he could not accept the proposed SBSTA conclusions on this item.
AUSTRALIA noted the number of "no regrets" policies, but said the risk of damage provides rationale for actions beyond "no regrets."
He also highlighted agreement on the Poznań Strategic Programme on Technology Transfer, and progress in discussions on REDD and the LDC Fund.
The EU said SBI is legally obliged to consider items on its agenda and the UMBRELLA GROUP expressed disappointment that the matter would not be discussed at SBI 28.
On methodological issues, the US and EU stressed keeping the guidelines under review and incorporating additional methodological issues raised by the Kyoto Protocol.
On the fifth synthesis report of AIJ under the pilot phase, the US provided proposals aimed at capturing the ongoing review of the pilot phase through continuing annual reports, revisiting elements for improvements, and looking at host party experiences of the pilot phase.
 IRAN stated that this information should be produced in a manner that covers the demand of countries.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the importance of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR-RC) for outcomes under the PAWP.
SWITZERLAND emphasized the need to standardize testing procedures for technologies in developing countries.
AOSIS stressed the urgency of the question of insurance and, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, viewed the additions to the agenda item as technical rather than substantive.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the report on progress in implementing the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation (NWP).
On institutional arrangements, the US, Canada, Japan and others saw no need for new institutional arrangements for adaptation.
The EU, Australia, Norway and Japan supported the continued use of GWPs, and Norway proposed that the IPCC provide additional information on other metrics.
ARGENTINA, for a number of developing countries, said that measures should not constitute a disguised restriction on international trade.
The PHILIPPINES said the current pace of negotiations is "grossly inadequate."
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that certain ideas must be clear in the text, including that developed countries must: minimize the consequences of response measures; cooperate in advancing further understanding of the consequences of response measures; exchange information; and take effective action to reduce negative consequences.
On the possibility of Annex B parties strengthening their QELROs during the second commitment period, the EU indicated willingness to explore the ambition mechanism proposed by the G-77/China.
On submissions in the next steps section, BRAZIL, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, REPUBLIC OF KOREA, Peru, for AILAC, and the US, opposed by CHINA and INDIA, called for “common” to be inserted before MPGs.
JAPAN emphasized that the top-down approach to setting aggregate levels of emission reductions is not politically viable for Annex I Parties.
Regarding a paragraph on  , the US recalled long discussions on the matter in WGII and suggested using approved language.
The US suggested specifying adequate “technical and administrative” support, with Dominica adding “financial” to that list.
The EU, opposed by the LDCs, suggested addressing the mitigation cycle in the mitigation section, and considering the adaptation and finance cycles in their respective sections.
 URUGUAY was interested in supporting regional action programmes.
The EU welcomed, inter alia: progress towards the implementation of the work programme on loss and damage; the first session of the Durban Forum on Capacity Building; the operationalization of the work programme under the forum on the implementation of response measures; and conclusions and a draft CMP decision on the methodology for calculating the International Transaction Log fees for the 2014-2015 biennium.
INDIA, the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA and AOSIS stated that the private sector can play only a limited role.
 A number of delegations, including TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and ZIMBABWE, stressed the importance of Article 5 to developing countries.
ZAMBIA noted these proposals reflect the group’s consensus but explained the LDCs may still make additions.
Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for the IAR and ICA to provide lessons for the Paris Agreement’s transparency framework and for resolving outstanding issues on the budget.
On his country’s second BUR, SINGAPORE explained that the country was “well on track” to achieve its 2020 pledge to reduce emissions by 16% below business as usual.
CROATIA said that “per adoption by the COP” should be included as an option for base year.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, proposed that the UNFCCC Secretariat regularly report on relevant WTO activities.
CANADA, supported by JAPAN and the US, stressed that capacity building is a crosscutting issue that is a means and not an end in itself, and JAPAN said an independent section on capacity building was unnecessary.
MEXICO reiterated their full commitment to developing a transparent and inclusive process for COP 16.
He urged parties to look again at how Kyoto Protocol commitments had been watered down after the rules were elaborated, adding that the EU would not risk buying a “pig in a poke,” in other words agree to a second commitment period before elaborating the rules it would be subject to.
The US bracketed references to Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
The non-paper includes amended text as well as a joint submission by the EU and BRAZIL on non-permanence, and a new version of Appendix E. Several submissions were also noted, including on invasive alien species and GMOs, small-scale and special projects, and the insurance approach to non-permanence.
BANGLEDESH, with the EU and CANADA, supported the extension of the LEG ef bf bds mandate, and, with CANADA, highlighted complimentarity between the LDC Fund and the SCCF.
BOLIVIA stressed the need for inclusion of alternative, non-market, and joint mitigation and adaptation approaches, and for adding text on “the protection and integrity of Mother Earth.” On a global emission budget, ETHIOPIA proposed including a reference to national per capita emissions and taking into account historical emissions.
SIERRA LEONE, supported by MALAWI, TIMOR-LESTE and ALGERIA, said delays in finalizing national communications are often due to difficulties with the implementing agencies, and called for improved communication between the GEF and implementing agencies.
A number of parties, including CHINA, CANADA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed reluctance to discuss compliance in-depth before reaching consensus on the legal form of the agreement.
CANADA said that the review should also include activities undertaken prior to the COP-7 decision.
BRAZIL underscored the CDM as a means of inducing new and mostly private investment, and suggested that it be project-based and include all countries.
NEW ZEALAND and AILAC welcomed a list of possible questions presented by the LMDCs on, inter alia: linkage between the global stocktake and other institutional arrangements; procedural format; inclusion of science; establishment of a SED; timeframe; and possible outputs.
The EU noted the importance of data for index-based insurance.
On the mode of work, Maldives, for AOSIS, asked for clarification on the intended outputs of the next two ADP meetings, saying this would help parties stay on track.
AUSTRALIA said the registry for actions seeking support, as specified under the Copenhagen Accord, should be made operational.
NEW ZEALAND proposed using national communications to report impacts of response measures and suggested that affected parties raise concerns during the review of Annex I national communications under the SBI.
INDIA urged that WG I 92s online journal access be extended to other WGs.
On adaptation, PAKISTAN noted the need to broaden the focus from mitigation toward action on adaptation and vulnerability.
The Russian Federation requested clarification of the meaning of “actions” and “commitments.” The EU insisted on “commitments” only.
ARGENTINA and BRAZIL underscored the adverse impacts of labeling, standards and subsidies.
The US, with Australia, proposed not limiting discussions to the draft decision forwarded from Lima.
The EU expressed satisfaction with the inclusion of quantified objectives and highlighted the need to address drivers of deforestation.
The EU, supported by the US, Canada, Japan and others, suggested working in smaller groups to facilitate discussions.
Noting the need to speed up work, NEW ZEALAND, supported by CANADA, called on parties to avoid spending too much time “fine-tuning wording and headings” and, with the Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed discussing the preamble at a later stage.
The PHILIPPINES drew attention to the Bopha typhoon afflicting his country.
The US recognized the need for new and additional finance, underscored the need to channel private sector direct investment, and noted that a single financial structure does not satisfy all needs.
SAUDI ARABIA recommended discussing non-Annex I Parties\' commitments only after the Kyoto Protocol comes into force.
AOSIS called for the TEMs e2 80 99 review no sooner than 2017, with a view to their improvement.
Supported by INDONESIA and CANADA, she called on SBSTA to request the Secretariat to prepare a paper on work under Article 6 for consideration at SBSTA-9.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and the US highlighted the need to streamline the text on participation.
e2 80 9d NEW ZEALAND opposed the long-term goal, saying that technology is better understood as an enabler to achieve the Convention e2 80 99s objective.
SAUDI ARABIA called for including the issue of equity.
SOUTH AFRICA called for strengthening paragraphs dealing with e2 80 9cassurances e2 80 9d in relation to the link between INDCs and the elements of the agreement, and the balance of support for mitigation and adaptation.
On arrangements for the first Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP/MOP-1), the EU supported work on common issues for the COP and COP/MOP, and the definition of necessary rules and procedures.
THAILAND stressed that the world is waiting for Annex I targets and expressed hope that improved rules on sinks under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) would provide positive incentives for developing countries.
CHINA noted that it needed capacity to understand technical information associated with the timing for baselines and actual emissions in projects.
KAZAKHSTAN and SYRIA thanked the host country for its hospitality.
CHINA suggested the Secretariat prepare a proposal on the format for their communication from Annex II on technology transfer.
The US, with POLAND, stressed that timeliness and completeness of submissions were critical in providing a basis for COP action.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted conditions including: comparability and coherence with the AWG-LCA track; an accounting structure; and a road to a 2ºC deal, including all major emitters, to ensure the New Zealand public will “buy” the deal.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported extension of the LEG’s mandate to enable the LEG to provide assistance for the implementation of the LDCs work programme.
Parties agreed on compromise language on further steps, retaining reference to a "frame for action" that was supported by the EU and others, and deleting the notion of "in-depth" information-sharing as an element of this frame, as requested by the US.
CHINA said the text on a shared vision should provide guidance on action on the building blocks and not be operational text.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the COP/MOP as the supreme authority.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for a streamlined purpose, which AILAC said is to catalyze and enhance adaptation action.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted the need to consider consistency with the Protocol architecture, the question of offsetting, sectoral coverage and MRV, as well as the relationship to the Kyoto units.
BELARUS underscored that the reason for a base year is to reduce perverse incentives.
BOLIVIA emphasized that financing should come from public funds of developed countries in recognition of their historical responsibility.
 GERMANY explained the amendments to the document, including inter alia: in paragraph VI, delete a specific reference to the OECD and IEA as international bodies to be consulted by SBSTA; in paragraph VII(A), allow for consideration of papers submitted by delegations for the Secretariat\'s recommendations on guidelines for national communications; in paragraph VIII, impose a deadline of 15 November 1995 for submissions from Parties for the Secretariat\'s compilation document on AIJ; in paragraph VIII, on AIJ, and paragraph XII, on transfer of technology, add elaborative sentences to balance the two issues; and, in paragraph XVI, Workshop on NGO inputs, provide assistance for developing country NGOs and add "The views expressed by Parties will be taken into account in preparing for the workshop."
Argentina, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, cited gaps in the implementation of Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects).
The G-77/CHINA appealed this.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted the need to identify incentives for non-Annex I countries to engage in sectoral approaches and suggested carbon intensity of sectors as a baseline.
Supported by MEXICO, BHUTAN and ICELAND, COLOMBIA called attention to sinks under the Protocol and underscored the elaboration of methodologies.
The use of existing mechanisms was opposed by the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Uganda, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP.
SBI noted the objection by SAUDI ARABIA and adopted the draft conclusions and annexed draft decision.
MARSHALL ISLANDS called for the Paris agreement to include, inter alia, a 1.5 c2 b0C temperature goal and assurances on long-term climate finance.
He recalled that the EU and its Member States are the largest contributor of climate finance globally.
The EU noted the usefulness of clarifying possible compliance models before COP 21.
The EU suggested: identifying non-Annex I Parties 92 needs by analyzing their national communications; identifying existing capacities; agreeing on a process to ensure that priority areas receive appropriate support; and providing guidance for establishing an assessment of capacity-building activities on climate change.
AUSTRALIA stressed the importance of analyses and assessments for Annex I Parties and said that it should not be narrowed to particular prescriptive assumptions.
South \t\tAfrica, the EU and others supported having the pre-sessional meeting \t\tjointly convened by the SBSTA and SBI Chairs.
On Monday, 9 June, the G-77/China and EU presented their proposals for draft conclusions.
NEW ZEALAND cautioned against confounding “outcome” and “output,” noting the latter is something that will lead to an outcome.
It was co-facilitated by Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and Sandea de Wet (South Africa), later replaced by Harald Winkler (South Africa), following de Wet’s appointment as the interim ADP Chair.
BELARUS and SINGAPORE noted concerns with avoiding double emissions accounting, tracking information and potential implications for other sectors.
Malawi, for the LDCs, cautioned against undermining the Marrakesh Accords, but supported a decision on this matter.
SAUDI ARABIA noted the vulnerability of developing countries that are heavily dependent on the export of fossil fuels.
SWITZERLAND also called for identifying and meeting host countries’ needs.
The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC emphasized that the New Delhi Work Programme should be extended and improved.
The US and the EU suggested parties present their submissions on how to cluster this paragraph.
She highlighted a new energy policy to be published in 2016 that is designed to guide policy until 2050.In response to questions, POLAND expressed confidence that the country e2 80 99s emissions limitation will be achieved.
The EU proposed adding a reference to limiting the global temperature increase to below 2     c2 b0     or 1.5 c2 b0C, consistent with IPCC AR5.
The US \t\tproposed, and delegates agreed, to delete reference to the UN Convention \t\ton the Law of the Sea as it was speculative.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, opposed.
CANADA said that summaries of intermediate reviews should be prepared and suggested that SBSTA consider AIJ.
INDIA recalled, and urged the Presidency to respect, the mandate of the Dialogue, including that the Presidency is to provide a summary of the ministerial discussions.
The EU emphasized the importance of accounting guidance, and JAPAN called for a fast start of technical discussions on accounting.
With SWITZERLAND, he suggested that discussions turn towards making progress on issues such as LULUCF rules and flexible mechanisms.
AUSTRALIA said the review of national registries could occur more frequently than on an annual basis.
The LDCs emphasized dissatisfaction with implementation of the LDC work programme, stressing that funding should not be restricted to NAPAs.
Belgium, for the EU, said the goal for Cancun should be to make progress and achieve results on: further commitments for Annex I parties; continuation of the Kyoto Protocol architecture; and next steps with a view to a legally-binding outcome.
The US stressed: diversity is in the actions themselves, not in whether a party acts; universal participation, new technologies and linking climate policy encourage more action; and the need for a flexible instrument that stands the test of time.
On projects starting in 2000 and prior to the adoption of this decision, CANADA, JAPAN and NORWAY sought clarification on the suggested deadline of 31 December 2005 for such projects to be eligible for validation and registration.
The COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS explored the role of REDD+ in a new market-based mechanism.
The EU made a distinction between FCCC Article 4.2(d) (review of the adequacy of commitments), which is the way forward for the COP to operate a review of Article 4.2(a) and (b) on a regular basis, and FCCC Article 7.2 (review of FCCC implementation), which covers the review of implementation of the current commitments.
Parties also recognized the commitment by developed countries to provide US$30 billion of fast-start finance in 2010-2012, and to jointly mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020.
MEXICO and CHILE supported a flexible approach with some binding commitments.
UZBEKISTAN stressed information exchange for Central Asia.
Opposed by NEW ZEALAND and supported by INDIA, he added that, pending agreement of this issue in the LULUCF group, any reference to Article 3.4 should be bracketed.
The EU and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, reiterated their request to delete a sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize the adverse effects of response measures.
On the contribution of international organizations to the process, the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA urged specific reference to OPEC.
MEXICO stressed the need to translate TEMs into implementation of new projects.
INDONESIA, with many others, welcomed the strategic workstream for guiding the implementation of the WIM’s function of enhancing action and support to address loss and damage.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned that adopting timeframes may “backfire” or cause “backsliding” and called for avoiding quasi-legal procedures for adjustment.
Noting that the IPCC 92s \t\tterms of reference have served the organization well, Australia, with \t\tsupport from Switzerland, the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Germany, Peru and \t\tothers, suggested that a short-term review by a small team working with \t\tthe IPCC Chair might be preferable to a lengthier review at this time.
With GHANA, she also highlighted the need to discuss incentives for technology transfer.
Developing countries stressed their concerns with the RAF, access to funds, in particular by LDCs, small island developing states (SIDS) and African countries, co-financing requirements for GEF projects, and transparency of the GEF process.
 During the afternoon contact group, AWG-LCA Chair Mukahanana-Sangarwe reported on her consultations with the AWG-KP Chair on the proposal made by AOSIS on Thursday for a “common space” to discuss Annex I emission reductions.
On the COP/MOP rules, Norway and the US emphasized that institutional responsibilities be part of the COP-6 decision.
Revisiting SAMOA 92s proposal for the consideration of stakeholders in the Executive Board 92s project reviews, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the EU and SWITZERLAND, proposed that it be the Board 92s responsibility to elaborate procedures for triggering reviews.
FRANCE questioned the cost, and the matter was referred to informal consultations.
The US underscored that the stocktaking meetings would provide information on progress, allowing observers to participate.
BRAZIL encouraged parties to include an adaptation component into their nationally determined contributions and developing countries to include assessment of vulnerabilities and MOI needs.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA supported creation of an instrument that works for countries reducing their deforestation rates, protecting existing forest and increasing forest area.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need to effectively address loss and damage, raise adaptation and mitigation ambition, and maintain environmental integrity in markets.
Spain, for the European Union (EU), said the Chair’s text can facilitate negotiations, but noted room for improvement regarding more ambitious emission reductions.
AOSIS and the EU added that this matter could also be considered at COP 21.
Opposing India’s proposal, AUSTRALIA cautioned against extending Convention Article 3.5 (prohibiting the use of arbitrary and discriminatory unilateral measures).
AWG-KP Chair Ashe highlighted that the short explanation by AOSIS of their proposal has demonstrated its relevance to the amendment of Annex B.
The G-77/CHINA proposed that a plenary of the compliance committee perform the allocation function.
 The US said that prematurely specifying individual policies and measures would prejudice the ongoing consideration measures, and added that little consideration has been given to the full range of policies and measures.
With CHINA, he also opposed establishing a high-level expert group, comprising the UNFCCC Secretariat, ICAO and IMO, to examine options for ensuring that revenues from international aviation and shipping can be used for climate finance.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed that the Plenary be extended to allow the parties to determine how the SAR should be used in making decisions, particularly regarding the Berlin Mandate and how countries will fulfill their obligations.
Following comments from the US, Germany, France, and the UK, text was modified to reflect that the guidance highlights key components and steps to be used when atmospheric measurements and inverse models are used as inputs to, or for comparison with, the inventory emissions estimates.
In a paragraph on elaboration of policies and measures the US, supported by AUSTRALIA, objected to the inclusion of “a menu approach.” FRANCE qualified a reference to harmonized policies and measures by prefacing the reference with “and/or”.
Also expressing disappointment, VENEZUELA noted the lack of a clear signal from developed countries to respect the principles of the Kyoto Protocol.
US President-elect Barack Obama delivered a video message to the Summit promising that his Administration would “engage vigorously” in the climate change negotiations.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of Chile, Panama, the Dominican Republic and Peru, stressed the need for the existing financial mechanism to be used effectively and for national communications to be strengthened and capacities increased.
CUBA, INDIA, TANZANIA, INDONESIA and others urged addressing intellectual property rights (IPRs).
Robert \t\tCorrell, Arctic Impact Assessment Council, US, presented the results of \t\tthe ongoing assessment of climate change impacts in the Arctic.
 The G-77/CHINA requested a postponement of discussion.
The EU and others noted the possible need for interim review depending on the length of the commitment period.
During the SBI closing plenary on 9 June, Lesotho, for the LDCs: appealed to Annex II parties to increase their contributions to the LDC Fund (LDCF); stressed that the LDCF is expected to support other elements of the LDC work programme in addition to the preparation and implementation of NAPAs; and expressed disappointment that there is no reference to this in the conclusions.
In the discussions on the update, MALAYSIA warned against conversion of bilateral projects into AIJ projects and ZIMBABWE drew attention to two AIJ projects in his country and a future national workshop.
THAILAND said developing countries cannot be expected to undertake commitments in the near future, given the performance of Annex I Parties.
On demonstrable progress, the EU, opposed by the US, expressed support for an obligation for each Party to demonstrate, in its national communication, progress in meeting its commitments by 2005.
The PHILIPPINES emphasized the paragraph calling on non-Annex I Parties to follow guidelines and format adopted by COP-2.
  The Secretariat introduced this item (FCCC/SBI/2008/INF.3/Rev.1), and the G-77/CHINA said applying the GEF’s Resource Allocation Framework to national communications was not acceptable.
  The EU observed that the GCF could promote a paradigm shift towards low-carbon, climate resilient development and that long-term target setting is crucial for investors as well as for a legally-binding instrument in 2015.
Because of the heavy agenda, the UK suggested that the next Panel meeting be extended to four days.
The EU underscored that there is no consensus on building a system, that parties had agreed to look at spillover consequences of response measures, and that anything beyond this scope was a “case of too high expectations.”
SWITZERLAND, with AUSTRALIA and VENEZUELA, supported including health.
e2 80 9d After informal consultations among all parties, the G-77/CHINA proposed, and parties agreed, to task the co-facilitators with re-organizing the section based on the three proposals and comments made during the session.
AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION argued for a non-binding regime and said their countries were more concerned about their own compliance than that of others.
Supported by many, the US proposed explicit \t\treference to the Laxemburg workshop in the Task Group mandate.
 The NETHERLANDS said that the IPCC assessment highlights the need for global emissions to be lowered.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, opposed by SLOVENIA, supported one combined session for the sake of efficiency, noting some details need to be clarified.
NEW ZEALAND called for addressing trade measures under the World Trade Organization and suggested addressing unforeseen consequences through diplomatic and development assistance channels.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted the 2018 facilitative dialogue as a key moment in history to bring collective ambition in line with science.
MALAYSIA and ROMANIA supported the topic, rather than question format of the Synthesis Report.
Co-facilitators Georg B c3 b8rsting (Norway) and Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) reported respectively on the finance and capacity building facilitated group sessions that took place on Tuesday, 2 June.
The EIG proposed a conceptual discussion on all finance-related paragraphs without shifting them.
 \t\t\tCHINA noted \t\t\tthat the voluntary targets by the EU and Norway correspond to IPCC \t\t\tanalysis on stabilization levels and urged other Annex I parties to \t\t\tcome up with similar figures.
AUSTRALIA said the CDM should be largely private sector driven.
SWITZERLAND suggested a ef bf bdpost-verification model ef bf bd wherein emission reduction units could not be transferred until they have been certified to be excess Assigned Amount Units.
In his  opening remarks  on Friday, 5 June, AG13 Chair Patrick Sz e9ll (UK) recalled that during AG13-5, delegates agreed that the Multilateral Consultative Process (MCP) should be advisory rather than supervisory in nature.
The EU supported a CDM-type project cycle to ensure environmental credibility at the project level.
Peru, for AILAC, stated the importance of making progress on substantive matters, rather than on procedural matters.
BRAZIL supported developing "a common language."
SOUTH AFRICA recalled the AWG-KP’s mandate and preferred taking up such broader architectural questions relating to both AWGs in informal consultations.
The EU suggested that the objectives of guidelines, structures, the modalities for communications and the detail required in biennial reports could be captured in an annex to a decision.
The G-77/CHINA proposed that Annex I parties take on “at least” a 25-40% goal, and INDIA stressed that lifestyle changes could lead to greater reductions.
The EU said developing draft decision text in Panama is key for a successful outcome in Durban and called for a comprehensive legally-binding framework that engages all parties.
ETHIOPIA announced a new submission clarifying the details of market mechanisms in the 2015 agreement.
The EU stressed the need for continuous cooperation.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, preferring only procedural conclusions, opposed.
China, for BASIC, urged developed countries to raise their level of ambition in line with science and their historical responsibility, and suggested further discussions on ambition under the COP or CMP.
On the question of who will drive the process, UGANDA underscored the role of governments.
 Samoa, on behalf of AOSIS, expressed disappointment that the COP was unable to agree to words as clear and true as the AOSIS protocol.
AOSIS said avoiding further climate change impacts on SIDS should be a benchmark and suggested an upper limit of no more than 350 ppm may be necessary given recent studies.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Trinidad and Tobago, for CARICOM, proposed a compliance committee with enforcement and facilitative branches.
ef bf bd NEW ZEALAND drew attention \t\tto potential tradeoffs between steepness of emission reductions and \t\ttimeframes for implementation.
NORWAY outlined a legally-binding commitment that recognizes industry structures, is equitable and verifiable, and utilizes fiscal measures.
The AFRICAN GROUP suggested that a long-term goal be ambitious and have a base year and clear mid-term targets.
SBSTA \t\tadopted conclusions on Tuesday night, 6 December, and the EU expressed \t\tdisappointment that it had not been possible to agree to a more \t\tambitious programme.
Saint Lucia, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), noted linkages among market use, the compliance system, net benefits and eligibility rules to ensure environmental integrity, and recognized the potential to cluster: purpose of market mechanisms and principles for their use; accounting of market transfers; elaboration of further rules; and consistent use of estimation methodologies, adjustments and common metrics.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA advocated greater focus on supply-side issues.
SWITZERLAND \t\tsaid the work of the \t\t \t\tAWG is related to ongoing \t\tprocesses under the Convention and the Protocol, and called for a \t\tcomprehensive climate regime.
He requested the Secretariat to "tap" all relevant regional organizations in the world including OPEC and OLADE and emphasized the lack of funding for the participation of developing countries.
Regarding adjustments, CANADA noted the lack of clarity in what an adjustment would be.
The Bahamas, supported by the UK, stressed that the document, negotiated by leaders, was important and that a mechanism needed to be found so that the financial offers could be operationalized.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND said modalities of the global stocktake may differ for adaptation, mitigation and MOI.
The US announced that it will partially finance the two outstanding regional workshops for Africa and SIDS.
NEW ZEALAND announced a mid-term target to reduce emissions by 10-20% below 1990 levels by 2020.
The LDCs, the EU and the US, opposed by India, suggested considering South-South cooperation in the 2015 agreement.
He also underscored the EU is a special organization because, while not being a state, states have transferred some sovereign powers to it.
Recognizing the common understanding reached on the strategic role of the technology framework in bringing transformational change, Mexico, for the EIG, commended the work of the TEC and CTCN, including on linkages with the Financial Mechanism.
  JAPAN and CANADA noted linkages between AWG-LCA and SBI discussions on technology transfer.
Japan and the EU \t\tstated that there was an overlap between this agenda item and the SBSTA \t\titem on Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
The US suggested that it should be clarified on who is required to complete the form.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, proposed a new multi-window mechanism that would include insurance, rehabilitation and compensation, and risk management.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, supported by South Africa, China and Saudi Arabia, expressed concern with the compatibility of proposals on common mitigation frameworks with the Convention and the BAP.
Uganda, for the LDCs, highlighted that developed countries’ responsibility under international law to redress damage caused by climate change formed the basis for public funding from those countries.
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the US proposed alternative text listing activities relating to implementation of decision 5/CP.7 to reflect that progress had been made.
JAPAN \t\tunderscored that ocean storage potential varies regionally, and that \t\tJapan has more potential for ocean than geological storage.
ECUADOR proposed to: establish an international court of climate justice; promote the UN declaration on the Rights of Nature as an instrument to protect the Earth and its ecosystems; and mandating finance support to enable MRV and establishing a registry thereof in the 2015 agreement.
AUSTRALIA, the EU and JAPAN called for evidence of consequences, while the G-77/CHINA and others voiced concern with this proposal.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported limiting global average temperature increase to 2°C and a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
Mali, for the African Group, and Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed the importance of enhancing the Secretariat’s resources given pre-2020 work and preparations for the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
On the inclusion of definitions and modalities in the Annex to the draft decision as it relates to LULUCF, JAPAN, with CANADA, COLOMBIA, AUSTRALIA and CHILE, proposed a number of references to the enhancement by sources and removals by sinks.
The US called for clarifying the policy/methodology distinction, while COLOMBIA and others said the two are interrelated.
BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA supported the proposal made on Monday evening by China, for the LMDCs, which, inter alia, calls for reorganizing the decision text in the Tool in a “logical” order: transparency of mitigation action; transparency of adaptation action; generally ensuring MRV of support; reporting of support; verification of support; and information on support provided and received.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA stated that “key ideas” had been omitted in the consolidation and, with AUSTRALIA, highlighted that if the outcome was a treaty text, it would require different specificity than a COP decision.
URUGUAY and ARGENTINA underscored non-carbon dioxide emissions and lack of mitigation options in the agricultural sector.
NEW ZEALAND questioned whether this would increase the level of ambition.
The PHILIPPINES proposed establishing a contact group to draft a COP decision.
SAMOA suggested any source the compliance body deemed appropriate, while IRAN said Parties should be the only source.
On confidentiality, the EU introduced new text that provides, inter alia, that the ERTs shall guarantee the confidentiality of information that a Party indicates is confidential, and that if a Party does not provide sufficient information for the assessment of its conformity with the revised IPCC guidelines, the ERT shall assume the estimate was not prepared accordingly.
AUSTRIA is committed to the Toronto Target as a national target and will increase efforts in the face of evidence it may not reach the target.
With AOSIS, he endorsed: holding ministerial discussions on pre-2020 mitigation ambition at the pre-COP and in Doha; and establishing contact groups on the two workstreams, emphasizing different timescales for deliverables.
Micronesia said that COP-1 should set targets beyond 2000 and urged all Parties to give the AOSIS protocol full consideration and support.
INDIA called for outcomes that strengthen the BAP and do not dilute the Convention’s principles and provisions.
 \t\tOn preparations, AOSIS, the EU, CANADA, TANZANIA and NEW ZEALAND \t\tsupported coordination with other processes, including the AWG.
The EU welcomed the initiation of a step-by-step approach to enhancing local communities’ and indigenous peoples’ participation in the UNFCCC.
ECUADOR emphasized the need for fair compensation, just transition of the workforce and support for economic diversification, as well as establishment of a permanent forum.
On future meetings, AOSIS emphasized the value of regional workshops and the need for coordination of FCCC workshops and meetings.
SRI LANKA said a reference to low and high economic growth estimates should preface projections of temperature change and sea level rise.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the important work of the Adaptation Fund.
It also decides that the GEF should continue to provide and enhance support for the implementation of adaptation activities, including the implementation of National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs), through the LDC Fund and the SCCF.
BRAZIL underscored the need to ensure assessment mechanisms do not become a barrier to technology transfer themselves.
The G-77/CHINA said the whole of Protocol Article 2 - including provision for minimizing adverse effects - should be referred to in the decision.
The US said the differentiation in assigned amounts in the Protocol allows for differences in national circumstances.
China also questioned \t\t\tlanguage in a statement indicating that “approaches that do not \t\t\tinclude a larger share of global emissions will have higher global \t\t\tcosts” and proposed changing “larger share of global emissions” to \t\t\t“wider participation.” The US \t\t\tquestioned the meaning of “wider participation” and Brazil opposed \t\t\tthe language as policy prescriptive and prejudging future agreement \t\t\tsince also “deeper cuts” would reduce emissions.
The EU said they could increase their target from 20% to a 30% reduction from 1990 levels by 2020 if other countries take on comparable targets.
With CHILE, he proposed an interim phase of the CDM.
The US emphasized the overriding importance of the IPCC 92s \t\tcredibility in assessment, arguing that a separation of function could \t\tnot be maintained if the IPCC engaged in a joint, interactive process of \t\tscenario development with the climate modeling community.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted the importance of quantifying developing country actions for attracting support and for mutual accountability.
CANADA called for cross-reference to paragraph 5 (mandate of the Committee) and avoid use of language that expands or confuses the mandate of Committee.
On the draft decision text on Article 5.2 for COP-6 and that for COP/MOP-1, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by TUVALU, PERU, CHINA and BRAZIL, and opposed by the US and NEW ZEALAND, suggested deleting references to activities under Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4 at this stage, as outstanding issues are being considered in the LULUCF group.
EGYPT, with VENEZUELA and BOLIVIA, proposed preparing a table with the attribution of paragraphs in the consolidated text, which will be made available to parties before the next meeting on Tuesday.
Stating his dissatisfaction with the report by the Secretariat (FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.4), SAUDI ARABIA suggested the contact group under the sub-item on the programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019 discuss it.
This paragraph was eventually \t\t\taccepted, as amended by the EU, with further minor amendments by the \t\t\tG-77/CHINA.
The EU noted the need to include indicators such as emissions per capita or emissions per unit of output.
The EU said the G-77/China draft programme lacked, inter alia, a clear timeline, deadlines and allocation of work to different bodies.
The EU, AOSIS and GHANA underscored the importance of the Special Climate Change Fund, especially to countries not eligible for support under existing funds.
SAUDI ARABIA, SWITZERLAND, GREENPEACE and others expressed reservations about the proposed timing for deliberation on some issues, noting the relevance of the Special Report.
CHINA said industrialized countries need to make “space” for developing countries to develop.
Egypt, for the LMDCs, and INDONESIA emphasized that a capacity-building mechanism should be based on experience sharing, lessons learned and best practices.
The EU, US, AUSTRALIA and AOSIS expressed disappointment over the lack of agreement and proposed that the draft conclusions include paragraphs on which there was some agreement.
BRAZIL suggested that the data invited from parties address two things: the impact of proposed accounting methods for forest management (such as the bar approach) on potential numbers, given that existing historical data may not be relevant to the forecast nature of the exercise; and how factoring out anthropogenic from non-anthropogenic effects would be addressed.
SWITZERLAND suggested the co-chairs develop terms of reference for the informal discussions.
During the closing SBI plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, expressed disappointment that the benefits of the NEEDS for Climate Change Project could not be extended.
The G-77/CHINA urged discussion of the contact group Co-Chairs\' draft, with CHINA opposing the use of other documents.
Brazil, AOSIS and others opposed fundamental changes to the existing architecture, while Australia and Canada suggested that improvements could be made.
6), submitted by the \t\tCo-Chairs of the Open-ended Task Group on Election Procedures, David \t\tWarrilow (UK) and Richard Odingo (Kenya).
VENEZUELA, with ALGERIA, KENYA and several others, requested inserting a footnote stating that the content of this section is not compatible with the principles of the Convention and the BAP.
He also said a separate EU proposal on financial issues had been presented and that, along with the proposal submitted by the Umbrella Group, there was substantial material on which to negotiate.
The Secretariat was requested to compile information already prepared by the IPCC, OECD, IEA and the national communications.
On Chapter 10 on Industry, Switzerland and the UK requested inclusion of dematerialization (the reduction of materials in consumer goods, manufacturing or products), while Saudi Arabia said that this idea could be captured by the term “innovation” in materials.
The EU noted that its member states are undertaking significant reductions and proposed that SBI conclusions take note of the report (FCCC/SBI/2009/12).
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed specifically addressing the “mandate” of an MCP at future meetings.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION recommended that the group consider the inclusion of quantitative data in the Synthesis Report.
SINGAPORE underscored the importance of open markets for goods and services from developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed preparing similar draft conclusions as at SBSTA 45, which take note of information received from ICAO and IMO.
The EU, NORWAY and the US supported the Secretariat\'s proposed paper on comparison of activity data, but sought clarification on several technical and procedural issues.
On the update of a paper compiling pledges (FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/INF.1), SOUTH AFRICA, supported by the EU, NORWAY, BOLIVIA, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and the GAMBIA, proposed taking into consideration the information considered at this session, in particular the tables prepared by the Secretariat, showing the translation of current pledges into QELROs.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported the general approach but said she needed more time to coordinate.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, said a future agreement must be legally-binding, have global application, recognize differentiation and contain comparable and transparent targets.
LATVIA supported the EU proposal for a Buenos Aires work plan.
 INDIA said the IPCC should continue to synthesize science and technical research, not stray into policy measures or national technologies.
The US urged the informal group to use agreed-upon references.
TURKEY and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said contributions could be revised on a voluntary basis.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for enhanced coordination with \t\tthe Convention on Biological Diversity, Ramsar Convention on Wetlands \t\tand the UN Convention to Combat Desertification with regard to \t\tadaptation.
El Salvador, for the Central American Integration System (SICA), called for procedural transparency and an increased scale of emission reductions from major emitting countries.
The EU proposed making reference to the implementation of decision 13/CP.7 (P&amp;Ms).
The EU also expressed concern about the difficulties in developing general guidelines on domestic MRV; and welcomed the operationalization of the work programme under the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
 KUWAIT said agreement on the need to reduce uncertainty means that uncertainty exists.
The G-77/CHINA called for: GEF adherence to COP guidance; no funding of activities inconsistent with FCCC principles; and, with EGYPT, attention to adaptation measures.
MICRONESIA, supported by the US, highlighted the value of outside initiatives, such as those focused on HFCs, black carbon, methane and ground-level ozone.
JAPAN opposed a global goal for technology.
MEXICO reiterated that they were working towards convening an “inclusive” COP for parties and observers, including unrestricted access to the conference facilities.
The G-77/CHINA, AFRICA GROUP and SAMOA, opposed by US, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, urged the establishment of an adaptation fund based on a levy applied to all three mechanisms.
GRENADA emphasized that there is no need for a new definition of vulnerability as the BAP already contains a definition.
SOUTH AFRICA identified possible options for moving \t\t\tforward in Bali.
 \t\t\tOn a paragraph stating that the impact of climate change in forests \t\t\tcannot be predicted with confidence, Tuvalu, with Belgium and \t\t\tGermany, opposed by Australia and the US, recalled statements from \t\t\tthe WGII SPM and underlying chapters that refer to carbon uptake \t\t\tpeaking and then declining this century.
Iran for the LMDCs, Chile for AILAC, and Mali for the African Group stressed the link between countries’ capacities and their ability to implement their commitments.
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), called for: progress on IPRs; agriculture discussions to only focus on adaptation; and the COP to provide guidance to ICAO and IMO.
AUSTRALIA said sectoral approaches should be taken up in the AWGLCA and questioned to what extent the AWG needed to “traverse the same ground.”
The EU expressed concern about a possible decision to adopt two indicative scales of assessment, and said, if adopted, this decision would set a negative precedent for other MEAs, since it would require Parties to pay for selected activities related to a MEA and offer a perverse incentive for those Parties who have not yet ratified the Protocol.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a short meeting of only the AWGs.
 \t\tCANADA, with ARGENTINA, FRANCE and others, stressed the need for the \t\tIPCC to use international events to disseminate information, and for \t\tindividual governments to disseminate information nationally.
 During informal consultations, parties presented written submissions on a possible decision text by: the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA; the EU; and CANADA, on behalf of Australia, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the need for raw data that could be used under a variety of rule scenarios.
With the US, he noted that national communications of non-Annex I countries would be helpful in identifying technology needs and underscored the role of the private sector.
The G-77/CHINA underscored specific mandates to consider related issues separately under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
During the general discussion, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to focus on advancing the Convention’s implementation without altering its principles and provisions.
She said it is a comfort knowing that “many, many Annex I parties share AOSIS’s” goals and see the value and necessity of a second commitment period.
On the impact of implementation of response measures, JAPAN, supported by the US but opposed by CHINA, stressed that non-Annex II Parties able to support developing countries should be encouraged to do so.
On  , the G-77/China, supported by the EU, suggested identifying areas that are new to countries, like NAMAs and CCS.
The meeting included the launch of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and Climate Policy Initiative report “Climate Finance in 2013-2014 and the USD 100 Billion Goal,” which was commissioned by France and Peru.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that it looked forward to considering issues identified by the Expert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT) under the AWG-LCA and underscored action-based implementation of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change (NWP).
Several candidates were elected by acclamation: Dahe Qin (China) as WG I Co-Chair; Christopher Field (US) and Vicente Barros (Argentina) as WG II Co-Chairs; Ottmar Edenhofer (Germany) as WG III Co-Chair; and Thelma Krug (Brazil) and Taka Hiraishi (Japan) as TFB Co-Chairs.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, INDIA, the EU and NEW ZEALAND supported the \t\tIPCC request.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized that setting a goal for governments’ efforts “needs to be substantiated by proven science,” provided by the IPCC.
Maldives, for AOSIS, asked for clarity on how the issues of adaptation, and loss and damage would be handled.
On Article 4 (the EU “bubble”), NORWAY reported consultations had made progress by clarification and concession from the EU and the proposal would be amended.
A contact group co-chaired by Terry Carrington (UK) and Kishon Kumar Singh (Trinidad and Tobago) will facilitate informal consultations and prepare draft conclusions.
The EU explained the use of a bar for forest management as an agreed level above which removals would be credited and below which they would be debited.
Some countries, including JAPAN and the US, noted the urgent need for a decision including anthropogenic activities because this influences the ability of some countries to ratify and implement the Protocol.
Reiterating that their stance on the second commitment period has not changed, JAPAN emphasized they would not make emission reductions pledges within the framework of a second commitment period.
SYRIA called for a reconsideration of financial resource allocation, particularly for adaptation projects.
The sixteenth Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economic leaders’ meeting, which convened in Lima, Peru, from 22-23 November 2008, concluded with the adoption of a declaration in which the economic leaders committed to enhance cooperation to improve risk reduction and fight climate change.
The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC remarked that being too specific in terms of planning work could mean sacrificing flexibility, while being too vague could mean “not having guidance for our work.” He noted an interactive relationship between ambition and means of implementation.
The introduction of a ceiling is opposed by countries belonging to the "Umbrella Group" ef bf bd a loose alliance of Annex 1 Parties that includes the US, Canada, Australia, Japan, Norway, the Russian Federation and Ukraine ef bf bd as well as by some developing countries.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP said it was somewhat reassured by the statement of US regarding their proposal, and stressed the need for verifiability and additionality.
CANADA proposed three key enhancements: improving incentive structures for sustainable land management; assessing the life cycle of carbon stocks; and greater focus on distinguishing anthropogenic emissions and removals.
JAPAN underscored mitigation by all countries according to their capabilities and sectoral approaches.
The US opposed any discussion of changes to the IPR regime and any text that sought to undermine or weaken that regime, and requested its removal from the table.
AUSTRALIA expressed willingness to approve the document “as is.”
On sinks in the CDM, GUATEMALA, opposed by TUVALU and GREECE, supported their inclusion.
CHINA stressed that the bottom-up approach is inadequate and insisted that developed countries reduce their emissions by 40% by 2020 from 1990 levels.
SWITZERLAND highlighted biodiversity concerns and promoted the inclusion of local stakeholders in decision-making.
Responding to calls by China, for the G-77/CHINA, with other developing countries, to clarify developed countries e2 80 99 views on how to fill existing gaps in capacity building, the US identified the TEC, CTCN and the Climate Technology Initiative Private Financing Advisory Network.
IRAN called for an analysis of socio-economic impacts on developing countries before judging the adequacy of commitments.
On supplementarity in the guidelines under Article 7, the US, supported by CANADA, highlighted the lack of legal context of a Chinese proposal specifying the aim of reducing per capita emissions differences between developed and developing countries.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said that financing must meet recipient requirements and should be derived from a combination of public and private sources, with the public sector being the main source.
 However, a number of developing countries, such as URUGUAY and VIETNAM, were critical of developed country progress on reaching 1990 levels, as well as their efforts toward fulfilling the Berlin Mandate.
The US expressed concerns at a sentence that invites submissions from Parties.
The UK responded that a bilateral appeal could not flow from a multilateral process.
The US, opposed by BRAZIL, noted the possibility of convening a “friends of the chair” group while continuing with drafting.
 During the morning contact group, NEW ZEALAND expressed willingness to commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol in conjunction with steps towards a global agreement that includes all major emitters.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed commitment to being part of a durable, fair, effective and comprehensive outcome with the participation of all major economies.
Several parties then provided views on a Co-Facilitator’s table on mitigation issues contained in the Tool, with SAINT LUCIA requesting time to discuss the annexes to the agreement.
Colombia described the section on finance as “unacceptable” because the vulnerability criteria apply only to the LDCs and SIDS.
The G-77/China, supported by AOSIS, called for a better reflection of enhancing the Convention’s implementation and said that the scope was too prescriptive.
CANADA stressed minimization of transaction costs.
The US proposed a clear distinction between “protocol” proposals and sensitivity studies, and called for the latter using all combinations of country participation.
The EU said in order to maintain symmetry with the outcome of the AWG-LCA, the length of the second commitment period should be from 2013-2020, instead of 2013-2017, with Brazil expressing interest in this proposal.
In this context, he reiterated the EU’s support for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and highlighted a robust market-based system as essential in achieving the global mitigation objectives.
 CHINA disagreed with the suggestion that technology transfer should be linked with AIJ, because AIJ is supplementary and voluntary, whereas technology transfer is an obligation.
The EU bracketed paragraphs on GEF funding for implementing adaptation responses and meeting full agreed costs.
 AUSTRALIA stated that climate change is a global problem and that the actions taken by Annex I Parties had implications for developing countries.
The EU, Switzerland and Slovenia said information contained in the TAR justified further action on climate change, and Norway supported discussions on stronger emissions reductions and broader participation beyond 2012, suggesting that SBSTA launch a process to strengthen commitments.
On provision for the second review of the adequacy of Annex I Party commitments the PHILIPPINES, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by GAMBIA, INDIA, BURKINA FASO, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, COLOMBIA, VENEZUELA, BRAZIL, IRAN and KUWAIT said the Kyoto Protocol was the first step in the review process.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, proposed a pilot phase approach.
During the closing plenary, the G-77/China called for further work on scientific, technical and methodological aspects of new gases, while the EU noted that substantial analysis has already been conducted and stated that resolving this issue quickly should be a priority.
The UK added that the topic merited the crosscutting treatment an SR affords.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BRAZIL, SLOVENIA and NORWAY, suggested that these issues be addressed after COP-9.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for progress on the work programme on market- and non-market-based approaches.
The PHILIPPINES reiterated her country’s call for clarity on the mandate of the APA on this item and the meaning of “preparatory work.”
The US cautioned that trying to come to an agreement on a set of indicators could be difficult.
The US, supported by Norway, called for engaging specialists throughout the drafting period.
AOSIS suggested devoting three-quarters of the time to technology transfer and the rest to capacity building so as not to confuse the issues.
The CZECH REPUBLIC urged adherence to the framework for pilot projects adopted at COP-1 and supported the establishment of a uniform reporting format.
SOUTH AFRICA supported an outcome consisting of a legally-binding instrument from both the AWG-KP and the AWG-LCA tracks, and stressed that the “bigger blueprint” would be best addressed by the COP Presidency.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stressed that there was no agreement to include the item on the agenda.
Upon reconvening, the EU repeated her request to see the text.
CHINA, KUWAIT and INDIA emphasized that the Convention and Protocol contain no references to “major emitters,” “advanced developing countries” or “environmental integrity” and that discussions should be based on historical responsibility and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
A contact group on institutions and mechanisms, chaired by Patrick Szell (UK), reported progress on a number of Articles including those dealing with national communications, non-compliance, the Meeting/Conference of the Parties and amendments.
JAPAN proposed cooperative arrangements for liaison arrangements.
On \t\tfinancial and technical support, the G-77/CHINA said it would introduce \t\tnew action-oriented text.
The EU said that it preferred a combined approach to account for carbon stock changes and some emissions sources.
CANADA called for a focus on actionable items, and identified Convention Article 11.5 (provision of financial resources) as a clear legal basis for mobilizing financial resources through bilateral, regional and other multilateral channels.
 On IPRs, Bangladesh called for patented technology to be made freely available to LDCs and SIDS and for compulsory licensing to be reflected in the text
 JAPAN said commitments should be strengthened by combining policies and measures and QELROs, using short-term and medium- or long-term time scales with both legally- binding and target commitments.
China, for BASIC, said the Kyoto Protocol remains the key component of the international climate regime and is the most important deliverable from Doha.
On the nature and timing of the proposed informal exchange of information, the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN, preferred holding it after COP-5, but before the twelfth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (SB-12).
SAUDI ARABIA suggested exchanging information through, inter alia, workshops.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed deep concern over unresolved issues related to Agreement Article 6, stressed the need to deliver on the objective of a global transformation towards low-emissions and resilient development, and called for strengthening guidelines and stepping up ambition.
Australia and the EU responded that all efforts should be made to avoid the gap.
CANADA supported looking at criteria for determining dangerous interference, as well as emphasis on social and economic impacts, especially in developing countries, and on the impact of response options on employment, inflation and other economic factors.
The US said there should be no implication that the AGBM will decide on these guidelines because that is the SBSTA\'s work.
ETHIOPIA highlighted \t\tincentives for clean energy sources.
The EIG underlined that Board membership should be equally shared between developed and developing countries and that public and private funding will be voluntary.
VENEZUELA stressed that work on continuing the Protocol should not be “sabotaged.”
Colombia, for AILAC, stated that while progress had been slow, the meeting had built trust among parties and established a good mode of work.
In the closing SBI plenary on 18 \t\t\tMay, the UK said it “firmly rejects” Argentina’s objections, has no \t\t\tdoubt about its sovereignty over the Falklands Islands, South \t\t\tGeorgia, South Sandwich Islands and surrounding maritime areas, and \t\t\tis respecting the wishes of the Falkland Island people in this \t\t\tregard.
JAPAN stressed the importance of strengthening the EGTT´s ties with alliances that include the private sector, such as the Climate Technology Initiative.
VENEZUELA, CHINA and MALI said IAR should contain, in part, a compliance mechanism.
Following a proposal by CROATIA, delegates discussed the status of Yugoslavia in relation to the Convention.
The EU and New Zealand said Colombia’s proposal to analyze rules scenarios and corresponding targets and ambitions might be a useful way to proceed.
The US highlighted co-benefits from a well-designed climate policy, including improved air quality, enhanced biodiversity, stronger economies and healthier lifestyles.
The US proposed emissions banking or borrowing.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, CANADA, SINGAPORE, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and AUSTRALIA supported the development of a technical paper on progress made since COP 16 in Cancun, considering actions taken and actions that need to be taken.
AUSTRALIA outlined a shared vision reflecting the need for all countries to decouple emissions growth from economic development.
On the remaining text, BRAZIL proposed \t\t\tlanguage on managed lands, the EU suggested inviting the IPCC and \t\t\tother relevant organization to continue their efforts, and the US \t\t\tsought to bracket a paragraph on capacity building for the use of \t\t\tthe 2006 Guidelines.
BOLIVIA suggested further discussion on, inter alia, barriers to development and transfer of technologies and IPRs that are in the public domain.
VENEZUELA stated that it did not support the draft Declaration, which is neither balanced nor objective.
BRAZIL preferred reference to complementing the objectives \t\t\tof relevant international agreements but not enhancing synergies \t\t\tand, with NEW ZEALAND, emphasized the need for clarity when using \t\t\tterms such as “equitable,” “cost-effectiveness” and “verifiable.” \t\t\tBOLIVIA suggested mention of a possible Stabilization Fund, \t\t\thighlighted sectoral approaches and, with TUVALU, questioned \t\t\treference to the use of IPCC Good Practice Guidance for LULUCF.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, summarized workshops held 25 and 26 February 1996, on guidelines and the initial communications of non-Annex I Parties.
On the way forward, Ecuador supported submissions, with the US and EU expressing reservations.
SOUTH AFRICA reported from G-77/China consultations and requested difficulties in attending parallel meetings be taken into account.
Supported by PERU, he said capacity building should be incorporated into all CDM projects to enhance endogenous expertise to identify technology needs and capacities for assimilation of technology.
The EU highlighted the need to consider positive impacts of response measures and, with AUSTRALIA, called for focusing on existing channels and processes.
NEW ZEALAND supported this, while the US opposed it.
The EU pointed to the text as a basis for negotiation but stressed progress had not been as fast as hoped and great effort will be needed to reach an agreement in Paris.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by MAURITIUS, IRAN, ZIMBABWE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, MOROCCO and the PHILIPPINES, called for AIJ to be consistent with national development plans and priorities, particularly in the development of a common reporting framework.
On sectoral approaches, the G-77/CHINA said that national actions in sectors can foster opportunities for relevant initiatives related to technological cooperation.
PERU reported on finance-related work undertaken by the incoming COP 20 Presidency.
INDIA stressed inclusion of funding for adaptation and MRV of support in the agreement.
BELIZE, for AOSIS, \t\temphasized the need for technology transfer relevant to adaptation.
The EU, supported by Japan, preferred referring to efforts that parties are able to “undertake,” instead of “make unilaterally.” Noting potential use of quantitative or qualitative methodologies, Brazil supported “developing countries may also clarify the extent to which enhanced efforts are dependent upon the provision of support.”
Chile, for AILAC, suggested combining a bottom-up approach, which allows each party to define its own contribution based on national circumstances and capacity, with a top-down structure to enable comparability of efforts.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA, BRAZIL, CHINA, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, INDONESIA and AOSIS, objected to discussing evolution of commitments.
With SAUDI ARABIA, she urged two separate decisions, one on Article 4.8 and 4.9, the other on Article 3.14.
 : On numbers, facilitator Lefevere (EU) reported that work has focused on two issues: the transformation of pledges into QELROs; and options for addressing surplus and carry-over of AAUs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for, inter alia: further clarity on the AWG-LCA outcome; maintaining a rules-based system; and enhancing the environmental integrity of the regime in areas such as land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) and the flexible mechanisms.
SAUDI ARABIA stated they had “only recently” received the text and also opposed its adoption.
On Referral, the US, SOUTH AFRICA and SWITZERLAND, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, favored a role for reports by expert review teams (ERTs).
CHINA underlined the need to “go beyond the ambition gap” and identify lessons learned and best practices.
GUYANA and the EU agreed on a focus on scope and principles but cautioned that discussion should not be limited to these issues.
JAPAN, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, underscored that both AWGs go “hand in hand.” The EU cautioned against a “narrow understanding” of the Convention and emphasized Annex I countries’ willingness in taking the lead with deep emission reductions.
KENYA called for GEF support in facilitating the CDM and implementing adaptation measures.
Regarding P&amp;M, CHINA proposed adding a reference to QELROs to note that the two concepts are integrated.
JAPAN highlighted its Cool Earth partnership and participation in World Bank initiatives.
INDONESIA called for transparency and inclusiveness.
 NIGERIA, IRAN, SENEGAL and MOROCCO opposed new commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
 AUSTRALIA considers emission objectives and policies and measures to be interdependent, and said that a key benchmark will be the extent to which there will be a convergence of the two.
The EU, with NORWAY, reiterated that this information is necessary and useful to discuss the collective level of ambition by developed countries.
SAMOA stressed two features of the AOSIS diagram: avoidance of polarization between the facilitative and enforcement functions, since they overlap, and an eligibility committee responsible for the determination of mechanism eligibility.
 \t\tTANZANIA, for LDCs, said that LDCs still need to resolve outstanding \t\tissues on funding for the implementation of national adaptation \t\tprogrammes of action.
The G-77/China, Saudi Arabia and Oman objected to drafting a COP decision, while the EU, Norway, New Zealand, the Russian Federation and Canada expressed support for it.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized that success in Doha requires an ambitious agreement on finance, and lamented lack of urgency and ambition across all negotiating tracks.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that commitments should be defined top down, reflect science, and be part of the formal outcome of the negotiations.
The US outlined plans to introduce new text on MRV in the form of an appendix, highlighting the need for “good insight into the efforts by parties.” He explained that the proposal builds on the existing frameworks, and would introduce enhanced reporting, as well as a technical review by experts, also identifying a possible role for the SBI.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for broadening the scope of eligible LULUCF activities under the CDM.
BULGARIA, on behalf of the Central Group of Eleven (CG-11), called for further consultations to develop a future framework for the economies in transition.
CHINA proposed MRV of support as the entry point for discussing developing country mitigation.
Noting that some mitigation actions may require technical or capacity building support rather than financial support, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said all three aspects should be subject to MRV in order to get “a full picture” of the support provided to developing countries.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with the LMDCs, AILAC and JAPAN, suggested that the co-facilitators combine the proposals into a document.
BOLIVIA, INDIA and others proposed increasing the scope of TEM topics, with BOLIVIA suggesting a focus on technology knowledge systems and practices of indigenous peoples and local communities.
The US called for leveraging existing institutional capacities, and presented several means for organizing adaptation priorities and actions.
NEW ZEALAND said new institutions would add new bureaucracy.
The EU added that the additionality test has a firm legal basis and that relaxing it would require a Protocol amendment.
The EU expressed preference for all items to be considered as “one comprehensive package” and cautioned against “isolating” certain items.
Norway, supported by Australia and Chile, proposed including a definition in the SPM of “non-CO2 radiative forcing.” The US asked that a range, rather than a specific date, be used to indicate when present trends will lead to a 1.5 c2 b0C increase in GMST.
NEW ZEALAND expressed uncertainty about the volume and status of proposals for surgical insertions and the modus operandi.
 Regarding transparency and attendance at EB meetings, the US noted that the EB 92s Rules of Procedure provide for attendance by all interested Parties, observers and stakeholders.
Many advocated broadening the scope, with MALDIVES and NEW ZEALAND proposing focus on tourism and agricultural sectors.
Climate Justice Now!, for ENGOs, lamented that the EU has yet to ratify the Doha Amendment.
The EU called for global targets for international aviation and maritime emissions, set by the UNFCCC and implemented through the IMO and ICAO.
SYRIA said more research was needed in order to find the appropriate solutions.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, with others, advocated that Article 6 be a separate SBSTA agenda item.
The US, SWITZERLAND and NEW ZEALAND objected to this proposal.
SINGAPORE noted that an update on progress on achieving emission reductions should be provided and that biennial reports should also function as an early warning system.
AOSIS added that this could lead to a difference in value between the CERs and AAUs.
In the afternoon, one party called for noting in the text that there are varying views on the operationalization of Agreement Article 13.3 (recognition of SIDS and LDCs, and facilitative, non-intrusive, non-punitive implementation).
On economic diversification, in presentations, the EU outlined its policy process including assessing impacts, and Maldives highlighted the difficulties of dependence on tourism that is sensitive to transport policies and carbon taxes.
 \t\tSeveral delegates, including SUDAN, KENYA, INDIA, SPAIN, VENEZULA, \t\tGERMANY, and FRANCE, supported moving forward with new scenarios.
YEMEN, COSTA RICA, PERU and the PHILIPPINES urged Parties who have not yet done so to ratify the Protocol.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged for a “balanced text” that would be the basis for further negotiations.
TUVALU proposed giving the Fund a legal personality.
The PHILIPPINES suggested that a body was needed to operationalize the process, adding that experts involved in the consultative process should be from the FCCC roster of experts.
VENEZUELA highlighted the advantages offered by utilizing fossil fuels while developing technology to minimize their impacts on climate.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said no further decisions were required for the AWG-LCA to terminate in Doha.
The AFRICA GROUP expressed concern with the proposal that submission of the national communication be a precondition for CDM participation.
On crediting and project lifetime, the EU, supported by a number of Parties, argued for long-term crediting.
SOUTH AFRICA opposed the use of the term “advanced developing countries.”
The EU proposed establishing a framework for action on adaptation that would help integrate adaptation into development planning and help stakeholders implement adaptation strategies.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, supported micro-insurance schemes.
PERU highlighted the time lost in the reconsideration of projects and proposed referring this to the GEF.
The EU, supported by the US and SWITZERLAND, stressed that the focus of workstream 2 should remain on mitigation.
CANADA, supported by others, expressed willingness to co-lead with indigenous peoples intersessional work to further advance the practical details, noting that they would need to be agreed by indigenous peoples and parties at COP 23.
BELARUS, UKRAINE and KAZAKHSTAN supported this proposal, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed it.
Following a question by CANADA, she said the COP/ MOP itself could decide that a case needed to be reexamined.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, he noted that whereas the AIJ pilot phase originated as a cost effective mechanism for developed countries, the CDM\'s origins are in sustainable development through development cooperation and resource transfer.
NIGERIA and SRI LANKA proposed assigning percentages of CERs to specific regions or parties.
Colombia, for AILAC, signaled concern for the allocation of time to item 5, and with the lack of progress on Agreement Article 9.5 (developed countries’ ex ante biennial financial communications).
SAUDI ARABIA said that the proposal made by G-77 and China should be included, particularly at this stage of the AGBM process.
The US made proposals for, inter alia, streamlining the text on commitments, addressing overlaps between monitoring and evaluation, and communications and reporting.
SAUDI ARABIA called for progress on the implementation of decision 1/CP.10 (Buenos Aires programme of work) and Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects and impacts of response measures).
IPCC Chair Pachauri explained that both Co-Chairs of the Task Group on Governance and Management, David Warrilow (UK) and Taha Zatari (Saudi Arabia) were unable to come to Kampala, and that Task Group Co-Chair Warrilow suggested postponing the consideration of the matter until IPCC-35 and proposed holding IPCC-35 in the middle of 2012 rather than in the second half of the year.
Switzerland, the US and Norway underscored the need for stakeholder participation and transparency in the CDM.
The decision transmits the AOSIS and German proposals and recommends that the COP "take appropriate action" based on the report of INC-11.
 \t\t\tThe EU \t\t\trequested more detailed budget information, said the ITL \t\t\tadministrator should provide a management plan, and suggested that \t\t\tduring the operational stage the ITL budget should be substantially \t\t\tlower.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested separating the ideas of catalyzing and enhancing adaptation action from support.
In discussions on the draft COP decision on Article 8, the G-77/ CHINA and the US said text on the guidelines had first to be finalized before attempting to remove brackets in the related draft decision.
JAPAN said the process should be based on a stepwise practical approach.
JAPAN highlighted its assistance to developing country activities, including through the Cool Earth Partnership, and contributions to a new multilateral fund and the Adaptation Fund.
AUSTRALIA also suggested addressing interim arrangements and how they fit into decisions.
  The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economic leaders met from 18-19 November 2015, in Manila, the Philippines.
UGANDA recalled that projects are \t\tdependent on funding, and noted that many countries are currently unable \t\tto carry out adaptation due to lack of funding.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, requested a workshop on finance needs of developing countries.
CHINA said a reference to the IPCC report as "the most authoritative and comprehensive assessment available" should be changed to "useful and comprehensive."
 India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), said that the full elaboration of the ADP’s work plan will only be possible after the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP have concluded their work and that an outcome should reflect the historical responsibility of developed countries and view the Durban Platform as a historic opportunity to ensure that international climate regime evolves according to the realities of a changing world.
Highlighting the challenge of identifying the impact of policy on reference levels, the G-77/CHINA proposed a cap on forest management that is fixed for all parties, noting that there was not yet agreement on a specific percentage.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the need to extend the CGE’s term at least until 2016 and said its mandate should encompass a number of roles.
On outcomes from COP-5, the UK, supported by KAZAKHSTAN and the US, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed a Bonn Declaration reaffirming the political will to complete the BAPA by COP-6.
BRAZIL said ministerials should be held sparingly, when concrete policies can be proposed to them, and, with AOSIS and the EU, agreed to work on improving TEMs e2 80 99 output.
AOSIS underscored that global sea level is projected to rise by 0.9-1.6 meters by 2100.
 \t\tJAPAN and CANADA, opposed by CHINA, proposed linking the AWG and other \t\telements of the Bali roadmap.
CANADA expressed a preference for discussing the issue under the AWG-LCA, and AUSTRALIA emphasized that the focus in the AWG-KP must be on Annex I domestic emissions.
On expertise, the EU, supported by CHILE, noted an
AOSIS supported developing a mechanism to address loss and damage.
The US emphasized that nothing should be removed at this stage.
Poland, for the EU, welcomed progress on many issues, including discussions on a future legally-binding framework.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed considering accounting, suggesting it is better placed under transparency.
The US, supported by UZBEKISTAN,
CANADA \t\tsaid it is too early to negotiate terms of reference for the workshop.
The PHILIPPINES called for referencing the ability to recover from extreme weather events and to biodiversity conservation.
AFGHANISTAN highlighted limiting the export of timber and, with BOLIVIA, underscored participation of indigenous peoples.
BARBADOS underscored the need for a registry to be linked to the financial mechanism and reiterated the call for a breakout group on how the whole architecture, including the adaptation, technology, registry and finance mechanisms, will work.
She also noted that carryover of surplus Assigned Amount Units (AAUs) from the first commitment period and LULUCF rules result in Annex I countries’current pledges being far below the 25 - 40% emission reduction range in the IPCC AR4 and even further from the 45% reduction sought by AOSIS.
Parties agreed on the EU proposal to add separate headings on guidelines for reporting of supplementary information under Article 7.1 and 7.2.
NORWAY opposed this, stating that national adaptation plans should only apply to the LDCs, as mandated.
  Ministers from Brazil, China, India and South Africa (BASIC) convened from 20-21 September 2012, in Brasilia, Brazil.
 The EU urged Parties to submit reports to the Secretariat on demonstrable progress and asked SBSTA to identify priority activities and develop a work programme on good practices.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, also addressed the issue of differentiation and flexibility, the AFRICAN GROUP, the need for more discussions on national capacities, and NEW ZEALAND, the need to preserve the facilitative nature of the mechanism.
BURKINA FASO questioned the purpose of NAPAs if mechanisms for their implementation are not in place.
BRAZIL underscored the importance of additionality and said standardized baselines would change the CDM’s nature, while PAPUA NEW GUINEA said they would be compatible with the current definition and make the CDM more efficient and objective.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, announced a submission, highlighting: improvement of access to the TEP by country experts; an accelerated implementation process; and MRV of support.
VENEZUELA, also for Paraguay, expressed concern with the proposals that contradict the Convention, such as national schedules, and proposed deletion of the reporting template.
The EU, supported by the US, suggested holding workshops to share information on sector or sub-sector specific activities.
PANAMA, on behalf of Central American countries and the Dominican Republic, stressed environmental integrity.
On REDD+, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, called for distinct treatment of NAMAs and REDD+, and called for a detailed article on REDD+ in a future agreement.
INDIA said financial support would also be needed for institutional capacity building, including monitoring and research and development for measurement systems.
The EU tabled additional paragraphs on conclusions, including a proposed Terms of Reference (ToR) for a possible workshop on P&amp;Ms.
PERU reported on an open-ended informal dialogue held on 20-22 March 2015, in Lima, Peru.
Belize, for SICA, emphasized the need for environmentally-robust targets for mitigation and credible and actionable financial commitments that will enable direct access.
CHINA noted that an MCP should be invoked only by Parties, involve discussions between Parties and should not “pass judgment” on implementation efforts.
Parties discussed: further guidance to the LDC Expert Group; revision of NAPAs; and guidance to the GEF, particularly whether the group can provide such guidance in relation to the provision of financial support for NAPAs.
GERMANY expressed concern over the decreasing number of delegates from developing countries and countries with economies in transition and announced a contribution of US$150,000 to the voluntary fund.
The US supported a process in which the questions emerge rather than asking questions in advance of the process.
JAPAN, supported by KAZAKHSTAN, BOTSWANA, the US, CANADA, BENIN, ICELAND, HONDURAS and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested that President Szyszko be empowered to appoint a special facilitator to assist negotiations and help Parties realize the BAPA by COP-6.
SWITZERLAND, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, favored deferring work related to Articles 3.3 and 3.4 (agricultural soils) until the IPCC special report is available.
AUSTRALIA called for considering technology transfer outside the Convention, and better integrating the business and research communities and the Expert Group on Technology Transfer into the process.
INDIA stressed reducing technology barriers.
Delegates highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC Fund in the short term to support immediate and urgent needs, and to ensure that the implementation of NAPAs enhance the synergies with other UN conventions.
JAPAN emphasized that for the relevant political decision to be taken, there is a need for clarity on the technical issues.
The COOK ISLANDS called for a World Climate Day.
AUSTRALIA urged that Protocol-related activities be funded by Parties to the Protocol only, and included in a separate budget and trust fund.
ARGENTINA offered text on accounting and reporting that supported Brazil’s concerns about the environmental integrity of Article 6.2 transactions.
China, for BASIC, emphasized that a successful completion of AWG-LCA must address all elements of the Bali Action Plan and must not leave key issues off the table, including equitable access to sustainable development and technology related to IPRs.
The US, Japan, New Zealand and the EU supported 1 January 2007 as this deadline, while Samoa preferred the year 2005, so as to allow a pre-first commitment period review and determination of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms.
The Russian Federation, the US and AOSIS said the issue of confidentiality of information might conflict with the principle of transparency and needed further thought.
AUSTRALIA suggested requesting \t\t\tthe Secretariat to explore the implications of involving the UN \t\t\tAdvisory Committee in the Secretariat’s budgetary process.
CANADA suggested aggradation-degradation be included under Article 3.4.
5-6, and FCCC/TP/2008/5) was first considered by the SBI on 2 December, when the G-77/China highlighted gaps in implementing capacity building, particularly in relation to enhancing capacity for implementing CDM projects in Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
 The G-77/CHINA: Manuel Dengo, Ambassador of Costa Rica to the United Nations, said developed country Parties must strengthen their commitments in Articles 4.2 (a) and (b), including elaboration of policies and measures and QELROs with specified time frames.
The EU noted the increase in emissions from international aviation and maritime transportation by 48% in the past ten years, and proposed that SBSTA work with ICAO to achieve further progress in this area.
The G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, BURKINA FASO, and the EU, called for increased funding for the participation of delegates from developing countries.
  This agenda item has four sub-items on: the fourth review of the financial mechanism (FCCC/SBI/2010/INF.7, FCCC/SBI/2009/MISC.10 and Add.1); the report of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) (FCCC/CP/2010/5 and Add.1, FCCC/CP/2009/9 and FCCC/SBI/2010/MISC.5); the assessment of the SCCF; and the LDC Fund (FCCC/CP/2010/5 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2010/5, FCCC/SBI/2010/15, 17, 26 and MISC.9, FCCC/SBI/2009/MISC.10 and Add.1).
The US, supported by CANADA, pointed to the need to consider FCCC resources for the work of the IPCC.
EGYPT emphasized the equal treatment of the three flexibility mechanisms and suggested that part of the proceeds from these mechanisms be mobilized to finance the transfer of adaptation technology for developing countries.
On comparability, the US said he did not believe parties would arrive at a single metric.
TURKEY called for a facilitative and constructive Dialogue, stressing the need for NDCs’ nationally determined nature to be preserved.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, called for balanced outcomes on the PAWP in future sessions, and underscored the need for pre-2020 enhanced ambition and provision of support.
The AFRICAN GROUP noted the early finish of the COP with approbation.
On the form of commitments or contributions, the EU said all parties should submit unconditional commitments, with the possibility for the most vulnerable to also submit actions conditional on support.
Following informal consultations, Egypt proposed qualifying financial assistance to developing country CLAs and LAs for those “who require it.” The Netherlands said it could accept this proposal, and the US compromise language was agreed with this amendment.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted areas of potential convergence, stressing, inter alia the importance of adaptation for all parties and aggressive mitigation to avoid increasing the adaptation burden.
The G-77/CHINA suggested the CMA can make the necessary arrangements quickly, by 2018 at the latest.
In the contact group ef bf bds final meeting, Chair Gamede noted the three draft proposals under consideration for adoption relating to: the guidelines for the preparation of NAPAs and their annex; establishment of an LDC Expert Group; and guidance on the operation of the LDC Fund.
TUVALU, BOLIVIA and SWITZERLAND stressed incorporation of indigenous peoples in the deliberations.
TURKEY: said the MRV component should provide a good inventory of GHGs and the selected activities; called for biennial reporting by non-Annex I countries; and stated that the AWG-LCA should give policy guidance on revising the reporting guidelines, including information on low-emission development plans and national inventories.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the importance of QELROs as part of the package moving towards a balanced and fair climate regime.
 COP President Hedegaard indicated that proposals relating to adoption of new protocols under the Convention had been received from five countries: Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, Tuvalu and the US (FCCC/CP/2009/3-7).
The EU stressed significant growth in these emissions and their importance to mitigating climate change.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said Annex I parties’ commitments should take the form of nationwide targets and 1990 should remain the base year for such targets.
 \t\tThe EU favored launching a call for submissions to inform deliberations \t\tat SBI 28.
 In March 2001, the US repudiated the Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempt developing countries from emissions reduction targets.
Presenting a national initiative on mitigation in the renewable energy sector, the PHILIPPINES described the role of international support for covering the incremental costs of implementing measures, for example, the need to provide international support to cover incremental costs of extending the electric grid for renewable energies.
UGANDA said every country should pay according to its historical contribution to climate change and money raised could be used to address emission reductions, avoiding a global overuse of the atmosphere.
CANADA proposed deleting reference in the draft decision to recognition of international "environmental" agreements and leaving only "international agreements."
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance of finance for implementation of Convention commitments, and for achieving progress on the Paris Agreement.
Regarding guidelines for national systems, the EU, with JAPAN, said they should be flexible in order to reflect differing national circumstances.
SAUDI ARABIA supported retaining the Protocol.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA proposed establishing a CGE on monitoring activities to provide capacity building support to countries, especially on REDD issues.
In the afternoon, Andrew Rakestraw (US) co-facilitated.
On the occasion of the sixth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD-6), Japan signed the Protocol on 29 April, followed on 30 April by the 15 members of the EU, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Norway and Monaco.
Tuvalu expressed \t\t\tdisappointment that his proposed special funding window for small \t\t\tisland developing states (SIDS) was not reflected.
The EU suggested that the objectives of guidelines, structures, the modalities for communications and the detail required in biennial reports could be captured in an Annex to a decision.
The AOSIS draft protocol does not impose any additional obligations on developing countries and emphasizes that the burden of achieving the Convention\'s objectives rests with the developed States.
Australia called for progress on biennial update reporting guidelines to create a framework to enable developing countries to begin the process and suggested, with the EU, January 2014 as a date for the submission of the first biennial update report.
One country reported discussions had been fruitful and had focused on finding commonalities in the operative text of the merged EU and G-77/CHINA proposals.
Australia, with Switzerland and the EU, stated that they are not ready to support land-based accounting in the second commitment period.
 On the agenda sub-item on national GHG inventory data for 1990-2007 and 1990-2008, BOLIVIA welcomed the outcome but regretted that consensus was not reached to include text on countries whose emissions increased.
CHINA stressed the need for both host and investor Party responsibilities to be clearly expressed.
BRAZIL noted that a shared vision should include, inter alia, a level of financing for both mitigation and adaptation actions.
The G-77/CHINA suggested that submissions should contain information on support programmes to meet national needs and specific circumstances of developing country Parties arising from adverse effects of climate change.
The US cautioned against the implications of this for GEF funding according to the three-stage process set out by decision 11/ CP.1.
EGYPT suggested building synergies between the UNFCCC and other international organizations.
Panama, for COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), highlighted REDD+ as a fundamental element of the 2015 agreement and called for a REDD+ window in the GCF.
NORWAY said an expert body should support and inspire the review process.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, Spain, for the EU, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, and many others deeply regretted the serious incident.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, noted that a shared vision should be comprehensive and cover all four building blocks of the BAP.
 The Chair proposed noting the reservation of the US.
The EU, inter alia: recognized that further work remains to be done on drivers of deforestation and forest degradation, safeguards and guidance for the assessment of proposed forest reference levels.
AUSTRALIA stressed the AWG-LCA’s central role and called for COP decisions from Cancun outlining a way forward towards a legally-binding outcome.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, submitted a proposal for the TORs and parties agreed to consult on the basis of the G-77/China’s proposal.
Regarding the relevant Articles for consideration in the special report, the EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS preferred deleting references to Articles 4 and 7 from a list including Articles 3.3, 3.4 and 3.7.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported working in a single contact group with spinoff groups, noted the usefulness of the workshops, and called for early establishment of a registry and the adoption of guidelines for NAMAs, both those seeking and those not seeking international support.
The EU supported moving proposals related to capacity building to the relevant sections, while expressing willingness to work with the section as it stands on the understanding it would not prejudge the final structure of the AWG-LCA text.
The US lamented that their submission was not reflected and stressed the need to recognize the political guidance and trade-offs made in Copenhagen.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said that guidance on features and accounting should be concise, bottom-up, and non-prescriptive, and that NDCs are “full scope.” Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern over bifurcation and scope, as well as the “degree of legal bindingness” reflected in the text.
India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Pakistan and Sudan supported China’s proposal, while the EU requested the proposed text be bracketed, highlighting, in particular, concern with referencing Convention Article 3.5.
The US, supporting Ireland, noted that the IPCC is a unique organization with unique election rules, so it is not possible to foresee every circumstance that may occur.
AILAC called for stronger language on developing rules for markets, land-use and forestry sectors.
Introduced by the US and others at AGBM 2, flexibility featured in numerous Annex I countries’ presentations as a prerequisite to new commitments.
Tuvalu noted that e2 80 9cincluding provisions on accounting e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cspecific needs of countries with special circumstances in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS e2 80 9d can be applied to all themes.
BOLIVIA highlighted that carbon markets trigger environmental problems, further noting that market-based approaches are economically, environmentally and socially inefficient.
The EU, Switzerland and Norway, opposed by Japan, expressed an interest in exploring how the methodologies outlined in the technical paper would apply to actual pledges on the table.
On the way forward, Bangladesh called for establishing a mechanism to address loss and damage by COP 18, while the US supported country-driven risk reduction activities, saying, with Australia and Canada, that a discussion on institutional mechanisms is premature.
The EU, CANADA, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for a comprehensive global approach to these emissions.
NIGERIA said reclassification would create problems for assessment.
 \t\tNEW ZEALAND stressed that no two countries are alike in terms of \t\temission profiles and mitigation potential.
CHILE, also speaking for Colombia and Costa Rica, supported a technical review of national communications, with a greater focus on GHG inventories, as well as a procedure for recording NAMAs and their effect on countries’ emissions.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU supported the calendar of events.
The G-77/CHINA, with BANGLADESH, the AFRICAN GROUP and SAINT LUCIA, described NAPs as key in supporting adaptation.
The US, New Zealand, Canada and Australia stressed the role of the private sector and the advantages of issuer liability.
GHANA and THAILAND recommended amending text on support from international and other organizations.
The EU, \t\t\tICELAND and NORWAY, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, emphasized the \t\t\timportance of a “shared vision.” SWITZERLAND proposed making \t\t\treference to the Chair’s list annexed to AWG 1’s conclusions, and \t\t\treferring to Convention Article 2 and the treatment of LULUCF.
The US and JAPAN stated that the key elements of the arrangements were already agreed upon and the GCF had independent juridical authority operating under the guidance of the COP and was therefore capable of drafting the arrangements.
 During the morning’s contact group, TUVALU elaborated on his proposals to refer to the legal matters group the question of how the existing decisions, rules and modalities for the Protocol’s operation would have legal continuity if the Protocol is incorporated within a new legally binding agreement.
The AFRICAN GROUP emphasized gaps in developed countries e2 80 99 MRV frameworks on markets and LULUCF.
Among the issues raised were whether to: delete the section of the preamble recalling specific provisions of the UNFCCC and Protocol; include reference to enhancing the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms in terms of Protocol Article 2 (P&amp;Ms) in its entirety or limit it to Article 2.1(b) (Cooperation on P&amp;Ms); include reference to specific international organizations, including in particular OPEC, to support future work on P&amp;Ms; and whether to request the Secretariat to compile information on P&amp;Ms implemented and planned by Annex I Parties based on information in national communications.
 Robert Priddle, Executive Director of the International Energy Agency of the OECD, focused on the Berlin Mandate.
ITALY said the SYR should add value to the work of the WGs, provide an integrated vision and focus on cross-cutting elements.
 The EU stated its understanding that the wording \'developed countries/other Parties\' in section II(2)(a) must be interpreted as \'developed countries and/or other Parties\' and means that this sub-paragraph applies to Annex I Parties within the European Community, individually or jointly among themselves, in accordance with Article 4.2(a) and (b) of the Convention.
BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, proposed adding reference to information sharing on the global emissions budget.
 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, supported by ZIMBABWE, called for an addendum to the SAR noting SBSTA’s comments.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, suggested addressing enabling environments.
On strategic review of implementation, AILAC supported a five-year cycle and, with Switzerland, Turkey and the Republic of Korea, and opposed by China, said it should be applicable to all parties.
NORWAY underscored the need for: development of methodological guidance on safeguards; credible reference levels; improvement of forest governance; and programmes for consultation and benefit sharing.
In the SBI Plenary on Tuesday, 2 December, the EU said the SCCF should be used as a catalyst for leveraging additional resources from bilateral and multilateral sources.
MAURITIUS, on behalf of the African Group, called for long-term sustained monitoring and projects leading to vulnerability assessment and adaptation methods and for more developing country scientists’ involvement in the IPCC.
CANADA, supported by the US, preferred deciding that the ADP e2 80 9cshould aim to e2 80 9d prepare a negotiating text instead of e2 80 9cshall.
AUSTRALIA highlighted two distinct work streams under the ADP on: the development of a protocol or legally-binding agreement; and enhancing mitigation ambition.
AUSTRALIA said a gap would not prevent the continuation of key elements of the Protocol, such as the CDM and JI.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, asked that financing be primarily public, including grant-based finance.
CHILE, MEXICO, MALI and AOSIS welcomed workstream 2 as a tool to engage with non-state actors.
The Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) expressed concern over "blanket" inclusion of all land use and forestry activities in sinks since this would introduce uncertainties and distract the Protocol from focusing on fossil fuel dependence.
South Africa, speaking for the G-77/China, called for “deep and \t\t\tambitious” commitments from Annex I parties.
The NETHERLANDS, with support from \t\tmany others, cited the need to engage developing countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed consideration of the IPCC AR5 under the Structured Expert Dialogue (SED).
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA and the EU, advocated transparency while recognizing financial realities.
The UK, Norway and Japan announced their intention to expand their financial contributions.
The US said communications between Parties were hindered by the differing understandings of the issues.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked for clarity on when and how their impending text proposals on institutional arrangements and scaling-up finance would be discussed.
Noting that the SBSTA vice-chair had resigned, he said a replacement nomination was expected from GRULAC.
Citing flexibility on the reporting requirements for SIDS and LDCs, he noted that certain developing country contributions and feedback on implementation would be crucial.
On \t\tleakage, JAPAN, with CANADA and INDIA, opposed by TUVALU, BRAZIL and the \t\tEU, supported exempting leakage because of monitoring costs and the \t\tunlikelihood of major impact, given the small size of projects.
c2 a0 The meeting considered: initial guidance by the CMA to the LDC Fund (LDCF) and the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF); and guidance by the CMA on the adjustment of existing NDCs.
NUMERICAL VALUE FOR FOREST \t\tMANAGEMENT UNDER PROTOCOL ARTICLE 3.4 FOR ITALY:
On the submission of questions of implementation, BRAZIL, with SAUDI ARABIA and EGYPT, bracketed text permitting the compliance committee to receive questions indicated in Protocol Article 8 ERT reports.
SAUDI ARABIA called for a work plan and timeline on Article 3.14 for COP/MOP 1, and said progress on Article 3.14 should follow an approach similar to Protocol Articles 6, 12 and 17 (flexibility mechanisms).
  The Board met from 12-14 October 2016, in Songdo, Republic of Korea, approving US$745 million in funding for 10 projects in 27 countries, in the areas of both mitigation and adaptation.
The US proposed categorizing developed and developing countries into two new annexes.
On representation in the facilitative working group of the Platform, parties agreed to have seven party representatives, including one from each UN regional group, SIDS, and LDCs, and seven from indigenous peoples’ organizations, one each from the seven UN indigenous socio-cultural regions.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and others proposed adopting modalities and procedures for including CCS under the CDM at COP/MOP 6 instead of COP/MOP 7.
Urging inclusion of mitigation, NEW ZEALAND noted that agriculture accounts for half of his country’s emissions, and clarified that the group’s mandate involves scientific and technical advice.
The Environmental Integrity Group, Japan, the EU, Australia and the US supported the global goal of halving emissions by 2050, and the EU suggested that developed countries must decrease their emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL suggested the topics of workshops would emerge from the submissions.
ARGENTINA, supported by FIJI, suggested 20-member TAPs, appointed by governments, with geographic representation.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed concern about the precedent it would set.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, called on parties to fulfill the mandate of the BAP and to reject attempts to shift responsibility onto developing countries.
JAPAN noted that his country’s proposals on the achievement of emission intensity targets and on national action plans as part of NAMAs should be reflected in the text.
The US and Norway noted that reporting and review are opportunities to build capacity.
The process will also consider the protocol proposal submitted by the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), along with other proposals and pertinent documents.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU and US, advocated extending the rigors of the CDM to JI.
During the second week, Co-Facilitator Lefevere (EU) reported that parties identified options for the conversion of pledges to QELROs: the mid-point for the first commitment period; the current level of emissions; case-by-case selection for each party; and no definition, since the conversion of pledges to QELROs is a political decision.
 \t\t\tThe EU drew attention to low-cost mitigation potentials identified \t\t\tby IPCC Working Group III and stressed that “costs of action are \t\t\tsmall compared to costs of inaction.” Switzerland, speaking for the \t\t\tEnvironmental Integrity Group, called for mitigation efforts that \t\t\ttake into account national circumstances.
The US noted that this is a critically important service.
ANTIGUA and BARBUDA opposed the idea of exceptions to the Kyoto Protocol.
MALI said his country is developing a green growth strategy focused on several sectors, suggesting a handbook for NAMA preparation and regional workshops would be helpful for providing guidance to countries developing their NAMAs.
The EU supported continuation of Joint Implementation and expressed willingness to discuss further improvements and changes to its operation beyond 2012.
The US indicated that joint implementation with credits is a least-cost win-win solution.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stated that being party to the Paris Agreement implies a responsibility to work for its success, ambition and progression.
Regarding the current status of NAPAs, he said that 43 LDCs have prepared NAPAs, but lamented that only US$176 million is available in the LDC Fund, compared to the US$1.7 billion needed.
Austria asked where benefits would \t\t\toccur above 3 b0C, and text on costs and benefits was modified to \t\t\treflect US and Austria 92s concerns.
The US stressed that they had followed the IPCC rules and \t\tconsistently and expressed their opposition to this concept already in \t\ttheir written comments.
TUVALU noted the complexity of the issues discussed, but highlighted “extreme vulnerability” to climate change and the need for progress.
SWITZERLAND supported reference to a forward-looking approach to address the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective.
KUWAIT suggested the draft decision of the SBSTA/SBI Co-Chairs be forwarded to the COP as a Chair\'s text.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, with THAILAND, noted a weakness in terms of linkages among elements throughout the text.
The US noted that “one size does not fit all,” and stressed the need for a clearly defined role for the Convention.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said that discussions under the two workstreams should remain separate and that adequate time needs to be dedicated to each.
ECUADOR lamented the “rather unambitious goals” and identified the need to represent the rights of nature.
The G-77/China, the US and India continued to discuss the language in a small group.
BRAZIL, CHINA, and SENEGAL opposed amending Annex A to include new gases.
The US preferred the third option, but was willing to consider the second option, strongly supporting each party’s INDCs representing a progression beyond their current undertaking.
BELARUS and others stressed the need to include his country in Annex B.
The EU highlighted ways to enhance global participation, including: improving access to documents; increasing observer participation in meetings, including informal meetings; and maximizing the added value that NGOs could provide to the negotiations.
The EU said these rules should be adopted by the body itself, while KUWAIT, BRAZIL and CHINA said the COP/MOP should adopt these rules.
The US anticipated dramatic improvements in the state of knowledge concerning adaptation in the years ahead.
The EU said a move to a low-carbon society is a \t\tpolitical priority and proposed to coordinate the work of the AWG with \t\tother processes, including the second review of the Protocol under \t\tArticle 9.
 Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed, inter alia, that guidelines for biennial update reports (BURs) should build on existing domestic systems and capacity, and allow for voluntary use of independent third-party verification at the domestic level.
INDIA said “those who do not learn from the past are bound to repeat it,” urging parties to focus on implementing the Convention rather than rewriting or reinterpreting it.
Supporting the US proposal, he urged for a consultative process to consider parties’ contributions.
AAU AOSIS AWG-LCA  AWG-KP  BAP  CCS CDM COP COP/MOP GEF GWPs ICAO IMO IPCC IPRs  LDCs LULUCF MRV NAMAs QELROs RD&amp;D REDD  REDD-plus  SIDS SBI SBSTA UNFCCC
 UZBEKISTAN has developed a special national climate commission, initiated national programmes, and begun a national inventory on anthropogenic emissions.
Australia, the US and Japan gave further clarification of their proposals for common mitigation frameworks for all parties, while developing countries opposed their discussion.
The EIG requested clarity on how the Co-Chairs will treat the group’s proposal to have a clear call for the next APA session to be focused on substance.
AUSTRALIA cautioned Parties that \t\tinventory reporting should not be altered, stating that inventories \t\tshould remain ef bf bdpure ef bf bd and not be linked to political discussions.
Supported by CHINA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA,
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern with the compatibility of proposals on common mitigation frameworks with the Convention and the BAP.
On the international level, presentations examined, inter alia, training for female UNFCCC delegates by the Women Delegates’ Fund and gender mainstreaming in the GEF and gender considerations in the work of the LDC Expert Group.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for an ADP decision that includes, inter alia, a definition of ex ante information for the preparation and communication of INDCs by all parties.
The US clarified aspects of their proposal for a “matching function,” which would advise developing countries seeking support for mitigation and adaptation actions in order to help them “navigate the terrain of multiple funding providers.” He emphasized that the function would be voluntary.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, underscored the need for agreed full-cost funding for non-Annex I national communications, lamented the lack of a clear outcome on the Adaptation Fund review and expressed hope that the fourth review of the financial mechanism would pave the way for the effective operation of funds.
UGANDA, for the LDCs, supported adopting the improved guidelines at COP-10, while the G-77/ CHINA preferred COP-9.
A number of developing countries, including BOLIVIA, SOUTH AFRICA and Belize, for AOSIS, presented additional textual proposals or brackets to the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/China proposals.
 SWITZERLAND said a task force or panel should work in parallel with the AGBM to narrow the list of policies and measures.
SWITZERLAND emphasized that clarification of approaches should not be seen as compliance or monitoring, but as a means to understand the intention of parties, suggesting that the Subsidiary Bodies take up this discussion.
On elements related to good practice guidance and adjustments under Article 5.2 (adjustments), the G-77/CHINA suggested bracketing text on estimates of emissions and removals from LULUCF as the discussions in the group on LULUCF had not been concluded.
Opposed by the EU \t\t\tand Norway, China proposed deleting a bullet point indicating,  \t\t\tinter alia, that mitigation efforts during the next few decades \t\t\twill to a large extent determine the long-term temperature increase \t\t\tand climate change impacts.
To this, the US replied that more consideration is needed before the documents are elevated to the level of principles and suggested leaving them as standalone documents.
Chair Thorgeirsson said Terry Carrington (UK) and Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad &amp; Tobago) would co-chair a contact group.
Japan suggested broadening the scope of developed countries and differentiating among developing countries with the possibility of graduation, while Brazil, for the G-77/China, firmly rejected any proposals for differentiation among non-Annex I parties.
The EU said scientific uncertainty should not be a reason for inaction.
For the post-2020 agreement, JAPAN identified: quantifiable obligations on mitigation; domestic measures to support INDCs; and review of contributions and implementation.
THAILAND supported North-South and South-South partnerships based on equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
The EU called for clear definitions of terms and for work on the eligibility of additional activities between now and COP-6.
INDIA and CHINA said the IPCC should be requested to consider how new gases would affect the 25-40% emission reduction range.
He called for agreement on a climate finance roadmap for the period 2013-2020, to annually scale up developed countries’ public finance contributions to a minimum of US$100 billion per year.
SAMOA stressed the need to interpret Article 3.14 in its broadest sense and in relation to the FCCC 92s objective.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed separating treaty elements from decision elements at this stage.
The EU highlighted the need for both specific projects and programmes, and for a longer-term perspective.
 The spin-off group on technology development and transfer (Article 7), and capacity building (Article 8), co-facilitated by Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu (Democratic Republic of the Congo) and Artur Runge-Metzger (EU), met on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.
 NORWAY and others requested that the questions be made available before Bangkok.
The EU underscored that parties have been working on the issues of carry-over of AAUs and increasing ambition, calling for the “fruits of this work” to be tabled before forwarding the text to ministers.
 The US said she “wholeheartedly” endorses the Declaration, which focuses on three critical points: the need to move forward on the basis of new and compelling scientific evidence; the need to focus on legally binding targets as the next step; and the need to rapidly move the process forward to complete its critical work by COP-3.
  Tuvalu, for AOSIS, suggested discussing a mechanism to use a share of revenues from auctioning Assigned Amount Units to fund adaptation, and methodologies to apply a levy on aviation and maritime transport, while recognizing the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
CANADA and JAPAN highlighted the importance of continuing \t\t\tanalytical work on mitigation potential, with CANADA adding that it \t\t\thas only just started.
FRANCE stated that it could \t\tnot accept that 93CCS is a mitigation option 94 as long as CCS included \t\tocean storage.
AUSTRALIA noted that parties should not foreclose new options for mitigation under LULUCF and favored the review of current rules to ensure simplicity without perverse incentives.
The EU supported identifying elements of the guidelines.
BRAZIL and KENYA called for further discussions on the adverse impacts of climate change.
NEW ZEALAND supported the concept, in principle, of a clearinghouse and emphasized the use of existing institutions.
On CDM project monitoring, MAURITANIA said monitoring and reporting should not burden the host country.
Germany, the UK, Belgium and others also \t\t\tsupported including information of where stabilization actually \t\t\toccurs.
MACEDONIA highlighted the importance of cooperation to maximize \t\topportunities.
Co-Chair Parry, opposed by the UK, Germany \t\t\tand Japan, proposed deleting the statement since it appears \t\t\telsewhere.
SAMOA supported this text, while the US, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND opposed it.
Costa Rica, for the G-77/China, said efforts to address climate change should not be compromised by the current financial crisis.
 AOSIS maintained its support for the target proposed in its original draft protocol.
URUGUAY offered to host an AWG-LCA and AWG-KP session if Bonn or another UN location is unable to do so.
INDIA, CHINA and others urged parties to focus on the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, while TUVALU urged continuing the contact group’s discussions.
OPEC said implementing the Protocol would lead to dramatic economic losses for OPEC Parties, and called for equitable distribution of the costs of climate change mitigation.
CHINA stated that they were considering offering to host the session.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested, inter alia, emphasizing the importance of addressing fundraising strategies and recognizing the Adaptation Fund was established at COP 7.
The US, New Zealand, Norway, Canada, the EU, Australia, Switzerland, and the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed that the group’s mandate is to continue clarifying mitigation pledges by developing country parties, which is vital to build confidence and trust and to identify practical solutions for moving forward.
SWITZERLAND and Jamaica, for AOSIS, and INDIA cautioned against additional reporting burdens.
Delegates agreed to delete the section on coverage and the EU submitted a proposal to restructure the section on national circumstances.
Espen R f8nneberg, Inter-Regional Advisor for Small Island Developing States, Water, Natural Resources and SIDS Branch of the UN Division for Sustainable Development of DESA (UNSIDS), made a presentation on the needs of SIDS, particularly in relation to adaptation options.
SAUDI ARABIA said he could not accept negotiations taking place outside the FCCC bodies, and opposed the appointment of facilitators.
Some AOSIS members blamed a small number of \'obstinate and obstructionist countries\' for the \'vague, ambiguous and unfair\' document.
The US, supported by the EU, highlighted an overlap with other sub-groups and suggested focusing on developing operational language.
BANGLADESH underlined the needs of LDCs.
Sweden, for the EU, called for a binding agreement that incorporates the essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
On the CDM, COLOMBIA supported sequestration projects.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, and Maldives, for AOSIS, noted that the consultations will consider the Executive Committee (ExCom) report and recommendations, rather than the COP’s authority over and guidance to the WIM.
Spain, for the EU, preferred discussing technical issues relating to LULUCF rules and surplus AAUs before discussing how to raise the level of ambition, stressing that the rules affect the level of ambition.
CANADA, supported by SWITZERLAND and BULGARIA, urged Parties to ensure early payment of contributions.
Opposing this, the EU said the matter is under consideration elsewhere and called for avoiding duplicating work.
The US expressed regret that divisions among Parties would prevent delegates from putting all the issues on the table at this session.
He emphasized that 80% of global emissions trading is based on the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme, which will continue operating regardless of a gap in commitment periods.
The EU suggested it would be helpful to look at the submissions and outcomes of workshops, drawing out common elements and inserting them in the text.
CANADA and the US stressed that INDCs relate to mitigation.
New Zealand cautioned against using considerable negotiation time on a global goal, whereas Chile, for AILAC, said agreeing on a global goal is key.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred deferring discussions until clarity has been achieved on the other building blocks.
QATAR opposed trade barriers or new international regulations on a sectoral basis.
Sudan, for the African Group, opposed by Norway and the US, said a quantitative goal for adaptation MOI could be aggregated from NAPs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged against “backsliding” and lamented the lack of agreement to “move on essential work” in the second week.
BELARUS and SWITZERLAND said voluntary accounting is better than not accounting for wetlands at all.
NEW ZEALAND said forests should be characterized as stocks rather than flows.
Responding \t\tto a proposal by Chair Appadu calling on non-Annex I Parties to submit \t\tnational communications every four years, the G-77/CHINA said that while \t\tsome Group members had considered six years to be a reasonable option, \t\the did not have the mandate of the G-77/China to present this as a \t\tformal Group position.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said that developed countries were denying their historical responsibility and their corresponding commitment to provide financial resources and transfer technology.
JAPAN cautioned against duplication of efforts and the creation of an “oversized” or “overlapping” organization.
CROATIA expressed preference for addressing the issue not through the Enforcement Branch but through a COP/MOP decision indicating that decision 7/CP.12 applies fully to Croatia’s Kyoto target.
On paragraph 11, the EU, supported by GHANA, preferred that the Committee report to each session of the COP, and agreed to deletion of a reference to the SBI.
The US said that it differed on the interpretation of "developed country/other Parties" referred to in subparagraph 2 (a) of the BM and said that actions taken prior to 2000 are not be simply carried through beyond 2000.
Italy, supported by France, Madagascar, Austria, Morocco and others, and opposed by the US, suggested the creation of a Task Group to address the issue in time for the AR5 scoping meeting in July.
KUWAIT, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted his country’s opposition to sectoral crediting.
The US emphasized that financial flows to developing countries are dependent on policy and regulatory frameworks in place, and called for strengthening existing institutions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that progress was made on some technical issues and underscored the need for more ambitious pledges for Annex I aggregate emission reductions in order to reach a 45% reduction below 1990 levels by 2020.
The US expressed concern about establishing a link between adaptation finance and the level of mitigation achieved globally.
Charles W. Donovan, Commercial Manager of Transactions, CAT Alliance Ltd UK, spoke about private sector perspectives on risk.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, underscored the relevance of civil society participation in the UNFCCC process as a way of enhancing transparency.
He pointed out that countries that take the US$15,000 for the self-assessment must use the expedited process.
CHINA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BANGLADESH and others expressed support for the third alternative, with INDIA stressing that it captures the essence of the Convention and the BAP.
VENEZUELA called for a holistic approach.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for joint implementation of disaster risk management and climate change adaptation and stressed the need to strengthen national-level institutions.
SUDAN stressed that shared vision should be more than a political declaration.
Commenting on the chapter’s structure, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, supported by the US, suggested incorporating elements of a shared vision into a political statement including a long-term global goal.
BANGLADESH suggested that the GEF establish a separate fund to meet these countries 92 needs.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND emphasized the importance of recognizing progress made under the AWG-LCA, including the various new institutional arrangements established.
AUSTRALIA supported a facilitative platform under the COP that would, inter alia, track actions seeking support, identify funding and capacity gaps, and establish guidelines for prioritizing support.
On Scope of Application, Canada, supported by the US, suggested specifying that the system would apply to all Protocol commitments/ obligations "as provided in this decision," since the accompanying decision would specify variations in the treatment of Protocol provisions.
The UK announced contributions to the work programme, and \t\tCANADA welcomed recognition of indigenous knowledge.
GUATEMALA outlined efforts at the national level to create an interministerial committee and to engage civil society and indigenous peoples.
Canada, supported by Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Chile, Norway and the US, suggested that polar regions be treated in a standalone chapter.
BRAZIL, supported by INDIA, stressed the need to take into account the respective capacities and capabilities of countries.
NEW ZEALAND said the IPCC AR5 provides a holistic approach to climate science and cautioned against considering information that does not present an equal level of robustness and objectivity.
SWITZERLAND, supported by SAMOA, CANADA and JAPAN, and opposed by BRAZIL and KUWAIT, requested further discussion on the consolidated text.
The EU and NORWAY opposed applying flexibility at a general level.
SAUDI ARABIA urged full transparency and participation at COP-6, and INDONESIA called for full participation of developing countries before and during COP-6.
The PHILIPPINES asked for clarification about the role of the contact group and, with INDONESIA, expressed concern about the ability of small delegations to participate in contact groups.
The US explained the importance of \t\ttaking a fundamental decision on the IPCC ef bf bds role in new emissions \t\tscenarios and, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted that the IPCC should not go \t\tbeyond a facilitation role by commissioning or directing scenario \t\tdevelopment as this could compromise its assessment role.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a clear distinction between issues to be addressed under the ADP for the post-2020 regime and issues to be finished by the AWG-LCA.
INDIA and CHINA proposed deletion of a paragraph that calls on the CGE to consider steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the FCCC.
The \t\tG-77/China called for a signal on the CDM 92s continuity beyond 2012, but \t\tJapan and EU argued that this issue must be resolved in the Article 3.9 \t\tcontact group.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by IRAQ, expressed concern that response measures have not received as much attention as mitigation.
94 Jamaica, speaking for the G-77/China, \t\tcongratulated delegates on resolving issues such as non-Annex I national \t\tcommunications, but expressed 93extreme disappointment 94 at lack of \t\tprogress on the SCCF.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the 2°C target that was agreed in Copenhagen, saying global emissions should peak by 2020 and be reduced by at least 50% by 2050.
JAPAN called for a facilitative approach that incentivizes private sector technology transfer.
COLOMBIA highlighted that a finance goal between now and the 2020 objective is necessary as a process to support developed countries in achieving the 2020 target.
AOSIS, with COLOMBIA, said Protocol Article 6 (JI) and 12 (CDM) should be given equal treatment in the context of share of proceeds for adaptation, as this would ensure real additional funds for adaptation, sufficient funds for administrative costs, and no additional transaction costs for the CDM.
On long-term and global aspects, Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested a regular review of the elements under the section on the basis of science.
SAUDIA ARABIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, the US, IRAN and BANGLADESH, objected to restricting the roundtable to ministers, saying all heads of delegations should be welcome regardless of rank.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA underscored the role of governments in providing a regulatory framework for a market for ESTs.
The EU drew attention to the need to discuss interlinkages with the SBI, and underscored the need to avoid overlaps.
The GAMBIA preferred a two-year planning cycle to an annual one.
The US emphasized the need for an approach that would not merge UNFCCC and Protocol issues, since this would have an impact on the rights of the Parties to the UNFCCC that are not members of the Protocol.
AOSIS highlighted that: non-Annex I emissions are increasing and need to be reduced to the ranges in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) and below; non-Annex I countries are taking mitigation actions; and these actions require support from Annex I countries.
Colombia, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), called for a coherent and balanced set of recommendations for the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA).
Parties \t\tdeliberated over whether to include a paragraph taking note of the \t\tconcern expressed by the US with respect to the interpretation of the \t\tRules of Procedure on transparency and attendance of the CDM Executive \t\tBoard.
AUSTRALIA preferred retaining it, highlighting a situation where an appeals body member was involved in CDM negotiations.
GERMANY reported that legal capacity would be conferred by the end of the year to enable the Board to operationalize direct access and that a Memorandum of Understanding between Germany and the Board would be signed in Cancun.
On accounting for additional activities under Article 3.4, AUSTRALIA supported a comprehensive accounting system including non-CO2 greenhouse gases.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, with GUYANA, SURINAME and CAMEROON, supported the AWG-LCA Chair’s proposal, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA highlighting that Tuvalu does not represent forested countries.
Invoking the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, BOLIVIA said it was unfair at this stage to make ratification dependent on additional actions taken by developing countries.
The EU requested also compiling developing country pledges in the context of sub-paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
On behalf of the Western European and Others Group (WEOG), AUSTRIA recalled that the Rules of Procedure allow a second term and called for making use of the experience of WEOG\'s candidate.
The EU requested continuing work on two bracketed paragraphs regarding an expert group on capacity building and on performance indicators for the review of capacity building in developing countries.
NORWAY requested consideration of their complete proposal.
The EU, with NEW ZEALAND, favored a fourth national communication deadline of 2005 and a strengthened reporting process leading to the period 2008-2012.
On 5 March, Suncor Energy Inc. (Canada) and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (US), announced a greenhouse gas emissions trade that the two companies hoped would be a first step towards the creation of a global market and an international trading system.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others called for a coherent and consistent outcome from the two AWGs.
GEORGIA said his country pursues the goal of becoming a major regional exporter of “green power,” and elaborated on a potential NAMA in the energy sector on renewable energy.
The EU, Ireland and Germany opposed, to ensure political neutrality and avoid being policy prescriptive.
Concerning the CDM, on the issue of nuclear activities, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, presented an option based on the relevant Marrakesh text.
Objecting to the tactic of pressing for a discussion on sinks so as to gain a negotiating advantage, BRAZIL argued that the issue could only be addressed once key aspects had been resolved in the LULUCF contact group.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, opposed by the EU, suggested new headings on information related to transfer of technology and additional financial resources, and highlighted their textual proposal on information on implementation of Protocol Article 3.14.
The EU observed that the Marrakesh Accords took national circumstances into account, and TUVALU noted that the proposal did not account for trade in unclean energy.
GERMANY pointed to its 40% emissions reduction target for 2020 compared to 1990 levels, and its 80-85% target for 2050.
South Africa and Mexico expressed concern with combining the economics and ethics chapters noting that these disciplines are “uneasy bedfellows.” Norway and the US supported including cultural dimensions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized that, in contrast to COP 15 in Copenhagen, “we now have a strong basis for negotiations developed by all parties together” with a text that reflects important political positions that need to be resolved.
\t\tParties generally agreed on limiting evening and night meetings, \t\talthough there was some disagreement on how late meetings should \t\tgenerally go, with AUSTRALIA, the US, and the G-77/CHINA preferring a \t\t6:00 pm deadline except in extreme cases.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BOLIVIA, stressed reference to non-market-based mechanisms.
The US opposed including INDCs in annexes, indicating that another format would be more appropriate for 195 diverse INDCs.
The decision: requests the subsidiary bodies to intensify the preparatory work required to enable it to take decisions at COP-6 on issues included in the BAPA; requests the President, with the Bureau 92s assistance, to provide guidance to the subsidiary bodies, take all necessary steps to intensify the negotiating process on all issues, and recommend an effective organization of the work of COP-6; and invites all Parties to contribute substantially and, as appropriate, financially, to the preparatory work, including supporting adequate participation of developing countries, particularly LDCs and SIDS.
SENEGAL proposed a workshop on least developed countries.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the discussions should only address the specific agenda sub-items.
The EU regretted that substantive discussions were postponed until December.
He welcomed Dan Reifsnyder (US) as rapporteur.
Poland, for the EUROPEAN UNION (EU), reiterated their willingness to consider a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
SWITZERLAND added that the common MRV regime could be operationalized through COP decisions.
The G-77/CHINA and others also called for an iterative work programme.
He noted that the two additional AWG-KP and AWG-LCA sessions in 2009 will cost US$4.5 million each if held in Bonn, and an estimated US$5.8 million each if held elsewhere.
PERU said that financing and mitigation require further work, calling for a more constructive discussion on the numbers and MRV.
The EU proposed inviting the GCOS Secretariat to present an interim review of adequacy of networks, addressing national activities, in time for consideration at SBSTA-16.
PERU \t\tconsidered implementation of decision 5/CP.7 a prerequisite for the type \t\tof assessment outlined in the Argentine proposal.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted concerns with the quantitative ambition and environmental integrity of pledges and said proposals would be submitted on carryover of AAUs, the second sentence of Article 3.2 (base year LULUCF emissions) and Articles 3.3 and 3.4 (LULUCF).
NORWAY clarified that the proposal to move away from project-based approaches builds on their REDD+ experience, with a step-wise approach to building readiness and capacity.
France, on behalf of the EU, introduced a paper on necessary and available funding.
AOSIS stated, inter alia, that the concept of supplementarity should guide the mechanisms.
CHINA proposed a new title: “Paris implementing agreement under the UNFCCC.”
JAPAN underlined establishing effective networks of stakeholders, matching technology needs and resources, and utilizing existing arrangements as the key principles.
The EU highlighted a pathway to below 2ºC, which requires at least a 50% reduction by 2050 compared with 1990 levels, and for developing countries to deviate from business-as-usual by 15-30% by 2020.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented slow progress on means of implementation (MOI), and called for progressing from informal notes to textual narratives.
Noting that “the Executive Committee is not the WIM,” BAHAMAS called for progress on the mechanism.
Underlining that climate change is a historic consequence of capitalism in industrialized countries, Bolivia, for ALBA, said it is urgent to implement the WIM.
  On the fourth review of the financial mechanism, the EU proposed streamlining the draft conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2009/L.15/Rev.1) by deleting several preambular paragraphs.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, informed delegates that they are working on a submission on NAPs.
Following the opening statements in plenary, delegates took up their discussions in a working group chaired by AWG-LCA Vice-Chair Dan Reifsnyder (US).
The G-77/CHINA suggested compiling an options paper on modalities for accounting, reporting and review aspects, while the EU, CANADA and JAPAN preferred integrating these issues into the other options papers.
The EU and \t\tother Parties preferred to refer to the entire decision, while Saudi \t\tArabia, for the G-77/China, favored referring to sections of it, in \t\tparticular to the adverse effects of the implementation of policies and \t\tmeasures.
Australia, \t\tsupported by the EU, noted that the programme itself and its detailed \t\tactivities could be adopted at a later stage.
On the date and venue of COP-6 and the calendar of meetings of Convention bodies (FCCC/SBI/1999/CRP.14), SAUDI ARABIA objected to having two intersessional meetings instead of one, noting the difficulties with financing developing countries 92 participation.
MALI \t\thighlighted the impacts of climate change on least developed countries (LDCs).
China, supported by the EU and G-77/China, suggested focusing on the scientific, technical and socioeconomic aspects of adaptation and mitigation.
The EU disagreed.
The US and CANADA suggested drawing from a roster of experts for consultation.
The EU said that text on a global long-term goal and reviews should be in the operational part.
Canada, the US, Japan and Australia, opposed by the EU, urged bracketing all references to the "consultative process."
VENEZUELA, supported by CHINA, BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, raised concerns over the table, stressing that sub-paragraph 1(b)(v) of the BAP addresses “various approaches” to enhance mitigation.
AUSTRALIA insisted that its complete text on differentiation be reproduced in the document.
He also acknowledged divergent views on whether or not the EU Council of Environment Ministers’ decision illustrates a differentiation practice applicable outside the EU.
CANADA and NORWAY emphasized that the verification and certification guidelines should provide for individual project circumstances.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the AFRICAN GROUP said the focus should be interlinkages among all PAWP items.
On  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, suggested building on existing mechanisms or guidelines, such as national communications, rather than establishing new ones.
The US, supported by the EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY and JAPAN, said she was not in a position to work towards the establishment of an international mechanism and would like to consider a range of approaches.
In the final four minutes, PERU supporting Switzerland, asked the Chair to continue informal consultations and requested the allocation of half an hour of SBI\'s meeting time for SBSTA Plenary.
The \t\tCOP/MOP also elected five new members and five alternates to the CDM \t\tExecutive Board, including one from Eastern Europe, one from Annex I, \t\tone from AOSIS, and two from non-Annex I (FCCC/KP/CMP/2005/L.1 &amp; Add.1).
AILAC called for: scaling up of finance; focusing on sustainable development co-benefits; and high-level engagement.
The US proposed text encouraging developing countries to "promote efficiently functioning environmentally-sound technology markets through the appropriate structuring of taxes and to promote the accumulation of accurate, timely and reliable information on various elements of their economies where projects may be undertaken under the CDM."
The EU, supported by HUNGARY, and opposed by JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, the US, CANADA and SAUDI ARABIA, underlined its preference for a positive list.
 Cameroon, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, and others, stressed that measures to reduce emissions from deforestation in developing countries should account for local, national, and regional specificity.
On sources of information, the US, supported by NEW ZEALAND and SAMOA, suggested text permitting outsider participation.
Yvan Biot, UK, described the United Kingdom’s experience of screening bilateral development programmes for climate change risk.
VENEZUELA and NICARAGUA stressed that countries should not be able to select beneficial elements of the multilateral process, while neglecting difficult elements.
AILAC asked that it be made available before the ministerial meeting in Paris in July.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported by NORWAY and the US, suggested asking facilitators to propose bridging text, which the G-77/CHINA suggested be captured in another document.
SAMOA and the AFRICAN GROUP called for a comprehensive adaptation approach.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, emphasized the need to resolve technical issues on the flexibility mechanisms, the basket of methodological issues and LULUCF accounting rules.
AUSTRALIA outlined the advantages of sectoral approaches, including development and deployment of low-carbon technologies, lower transaction costs, and capacity building.
TUVALU cautioned against overloading reporting requirements, and said this distracts from implementing real actions "on the ground."
Upon considering SBSTA’s cooperation with the IPCC, many delegations, including the EU, AUSTRALIA, the US, CANADA and MYANMAR, endorsed the IPCC’s efforts.
With the MARSHALL ISLANDS, BOTSWANA and SAMOA, he opposed linking AIJ to the Protocol mechanisms.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for agreement on addressing the impacts of climate change on agriculture.
 During informal consultations, co-facilitated by Andrew Rakestraw (US) and Xiang Gao (China), the US outlined suggested elements for reporting, including a section on achievement of a party’s NDC in target years.
Delegates also debated timing of a workshop on shared vision for long-term cooperative action, with the EU initially proposing to hold this workshop at AWGLCA 2, and a ministerial level roundtable on the issue at COP 14 in Poznan.
Reporting on intersessional meetings, MEXICO outlined preparations for Cancun, including: the Informal Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; a series of activities held in conjunction with the 65th Session of the UN General Assembly in September 2010 in New York, US; and an international technical workshop for States and indigenous peoples in preparation for COP 16, also held in September 2010 in Mexico.
 During the SBI session on Friday, 25 October, delegates requested the SBSTA informal group, chaired by Jim Penman (UK), to also consider the Croatian proposal regarding its allowance for forest management credits.
On transforming pledges into QELROs, the G-77/CHINA proposed a mixed approach, with QELROs for countries with emissions higher than the first commitment period QELRO using the QELRO from the first commitment period as the basis for the calculation, and countries with emissions lower than the first commitment period QELRO using their current level of emissions to translate their pledges.
The US underscored that the Panel’s acceptance of SR15 does not imply its endorsement of the report’s findings, nor does approval of the SPM imply endorsement of all of its key messages.
The PHILIPPINES enquired about the financial implications of enhanced stakeholder engagement.
On Thursday, 18 May, Collin Beck (Solomon Islands) reported that consultations with the Chairs and Coordinators of the regional groups and small island developing states (SIDS) had resulted in a recommendation that the APA elect Jo Tyndall (New Zealand) and Sarah Baashan (Saudi Arabia) for an additional one-year term in November 2017.
They discussed the need to recognize the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, and challenges in defining which countries are “particularly vulnerable.” A developing country group proposed bracketing the entire section on eligibility, arguing that it is clearly defined under the CMP and does not require changes.
The EU proposal presents one vision of where the analysis and assessment process would lead, and how its results would be translated into a protocol.
The US stressed the importance of outreach and commended the Secretariat and contributing countries for their work on this issue.
Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that funding should be over and above official development assistance (ODA), derived from public sources and comprise 1.5% of GDP from developed countries with the private sector playing a complementary role.
AILAC and the Marshall Islands called for a legally binding protocol.
Maldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the Adaptation Fund, \t\tsuggesting application of the adaptation levy to other flexible \t\tmechanisms, not just the CDM, and to international maritime and air \t\ttransport.
South \t\tAfrica, for the G-77/China, said Annex I commitments for the second \t\tcommitment period should be 93substantially stricter 94 than the first \t\tcommitment period and the task of deciding on the details and rules of \t\tthe second commitment period should be completed by 2008.
The EU suggested inviting parties to provide funding for the regional workshops yet to be held.
  In the evening, ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened the session.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), stressed that further work by the AWG-LCA must be open, democratic, transparent and party-driven, centering on the implementation of the Bali Action Plan (BAP), and in line with the Convention’s principles, including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
UGANDA and \t\tNIGERIA added that non-electronic forms of communication should also be \t\tused when distributing documents to many developing countries.
Lauding the closure of REDD+ items, Angola, for the LDCs, looked forward to the provision of adequate and predictable support from developed countries.
China and the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) called for COP-6 resolutions supporting capacity building in developing countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for operationalizing the WIM so that it fulfils its original vision and delivers for people on the ground.
AOSIS supported the proposal and the EU indicated willingness to explore it.
The G-77/CHINA proposed referring to the IPCC statement to SBSTA when taking note of the IPCC report on factoring out.
Underscoring the importance of transparency, the US suggested that ex ante information provided by parties contain years, gases, percentage of emissions covered and use of methods.
Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, said the recommendations to COP-1 should include initiating negotiations on a protocol.
The US called for guidelines to ensure a more predictable process, especially for the high-level segment.
AUSTRALIA asked how differentiation was achieved within the EU and noted this could set an example for Annex I countries on the road to Kyoto.
BRAZIL cited their efforts to decouple agricultural production and deforestation as an example of developing country leadership.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for decisions in Cancun that would result in the adoption of a legally-binding agreement in South Africa respecting the two negotiating tracks.
JAPAN, supported by the US and others, but opposed by Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed inviting presentations from the UN Development Programme and from any other interested party or organization, on experiences of monitoring and evaluation within countries.
The EIG suggested it should also address linkages to non-APA items such as cooperative approaches.
This was opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT, with SAUDI ARABIA suggesting that the technical paper consider, inter alia: analysis of pledges; spillover effects; and response measures.
Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
GUYANA called for fast-start public funding for readiness activities and market-type financing for compliance grade emissions reductions.
Under identification and classification of problems by ERTs, the US, opposed by the EU, proposed moving the section on classification, stressing that ERT 92s should identify rather than classify problems.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported the invitation for views but said the SBI should not prejudge the outcome of the COP ef bf bds deliberations.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized the need for clear links between TEMs and existing institutions, such as the GCF and Adaptation Fund.
The EU called for exploring: why existing bodies are e2 80 9cnot delivering e2 80 9d on capacity building; ways to enhance collaboration between existing bodies; and how to strengthen the Durban Forum on Capacity-building.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by VENEZUELA, welcomed complementary activities to raise ambition, but stressed that these should not distract from activities under the UNFCCC.
Brazil, China, Thailand, the Russian Federation and others, opposed by the EU, Switzerland and Ethiopia, supported deletion of the reference.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION identified sinks and deforestation as key issues.
BRAZIL stressed that historical responsibility lends itself to a quantifiable translation, and elaborated on equitable access to sustainable development as reflected in the shared vision and review.
On conclusions from this session, CANADA called for a summary of the views that will lead to a clear, structured path forward.
Xianfu Lu, Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, UK, discussed the modeling of climate change impacts and response measures.
During the AWG-LCA discussions, AOSIS and some others identified the need to consider how the Kyoto units and the Protocol’s legal architecture would relate to possible new market mechanisms under the AWG-LCA.
On scope, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of the global stocktake to determine “whether the Paris Agreement is sufficient for dealing with runaway climate change.” SOUTH AFRICA advocated a scope that is both forward and backward looking.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for recording adaptation communications in the public NDC registry maintained by the Secretariat.
INDIA, supported by IRAN, called for the operationalization of the FCCC provisions relating to state-of-the-art environmentally sound technologies (EST), with supporting provisions in the new legal instrument.
 BURKINA FASO objected to any deletion of subsidies to developing countries or complex tax or other provisions affecting products for developing countries.
  CHINA suggested using developed countries’ public finance as a catalyst to provide incentives for the private sector in capital and technology markets.
The \t\tNetherlands, on behalf of the EU, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, \t\texpressed continued commitment to addressing climate change and \t\thighlighted the launch of the EU emissions trading scheme in January \t\t2005.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that since the joint SBI/SBSTA had recommended for adoption the draft decision on adverse effects, he would join the consensus.
The European Union (EU) observed that it was important to recognize that no single source can address climate finance needs.
INDIA said cost-effectiveness and enhancing mitigation are fundamental conditions for market mechanisms.
AUSTRALIA said P&amp;M in a legal instrument should complement national programmes.
The US said that the primary purpose of most energy demand models in her country is to inform energy policy, rather than calculate carbon dioxide emissions projections, making it difficult to provide recommendations on best practices for modeling energy demand.
Responding to a round of questions from the EU, New Zealand, Switzerland, Nepal, Australia, Norway, the US, Senegal and Kenya, presenters addressed: their expectations regarding the mix of public finance and carbon finance from abroad; economic growth assumptions; expectations of support for preparing NAMAs; the use of market mechanisms; carbon accounting methods; and institutional arrangements for the preparation of NAMAs.
KAZAKSTAN expressed willingness to undertake obligations and enter into Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol through Annex I of the FCCC.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged for a legally-binding protocol under the Convention based on science and applicable to all.
France, for the EU, stressed synergies between the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP and the importance of a shared vision as a statement of political will that translates the Convention’s ultimate objective into a vision of sustainable development.
The EU and the LDCs noted emerging consensus on the need to carry TEMs beyond 2015.
On long-term finance, NICARAGUA said there was no concrete roadmap for mobilizing the US$100 billon pledged by 2020, and expressed concern that this sum has no relationship to the GCF.
The US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand emphasized the importance of recognizing progress made under the AWG-LCA, including the various new institutional arrangements established.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested sub-elements for environmental integrity on adverse impacts for environment, social integrity, and human rights.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA expressed concerns, suggesting that lack of agreement on voting can mean “lowest common denominator” outcomes.
Lamenting that discussions focused on reporting, SINGAPORE suggested that MRV should contribute to ensuring Annex I countries’ compliance and urged that the measuring rules for all Annex I countries are comparable and coherent in order to provide a clear picture of emission reductions.
CANADA and the US highlighted the importance of non-Annex I communications.
MALAYSIA noted difficulties in tracking support.
SENEGAL and INDIA said they could not accept the \t\ttext as a G-77/China proposal and requested time for consultations.
New Zealand, supported by the US, preferred MRV as a heading for the section, observing that compliance is a cross-cutting issue.
The EU \t\tand Japan did not agree with this position.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with VENEZUELA, EGYPT, SAUDI ARABIA and MALAYSIA, stressed that the Group’s proposal, which includes the establishment of a strategic planning committee, technical panels and a multilateral climate technology fund, should be retained in the text.
NORWAY expressed support for new market mechanisms, highlighting the potential of sectoral mechanisms to contribute to larger-scale emission reductions and complement the existing mechanisms.
On triggers, many countries, including IRAN, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL, PAKISTAN and the US, highlighted the committee has to be self-triggered, with others mentioning triggering by groups of parties.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, with the EU, expressed support for an eight-year second commitment period, emphasizing the mid-term review of QELROs and the need to maintain a flexible process.
Kuwait, for the G-77/China, highlighted overall assessments of NDCs and information on mobilization of support, with India, Argentina and Norway calling for including information on the state of adaptation support.
AOSIS, with China, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and AILAC, called for annual high-level engagement.
The EU, with several developed countries, stressed the need for coherence with the AWG-LCA, noting the absence of some major emitters from the Protocol process.
The EU welcomed the constructive mode of work.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, Sweden, for the European Union (EU), Algeria, for the African Group, Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, Japan, the US and the Vice-Chair of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer highlighted his important role in the UNFCCC process and expressed their condolences.
ARGENTINA and CHINA called for work under the ICAO and IMO to reflect common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR), with CHINA also cautioning against regional or unilateral actions.
The EU underlined that the mechanism will facilitate information flow while the COP will make decisions on recommendations by the TEC, thus separating policy advice from operation.
An amendment was proposed by the PHILIPPINES requesting the Co-Chairs of the contact group on non-Annex I communications to prepare a document providing a framework for "elements for draft decisions," based on the G-77/CHINA and the EU proposals contained in the annexes.
POLAND said that quantification of targets is the most important issue for the AGBM.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the IPCC should consider all \t\tcategories of emissions and removals from HWP for future accounting.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for full implementation of the CGE work programme, expressing concern over the lack of funding for regional workshops.
NORWAY and the EU queried the specific references to the accreditation of Operational Entities in providing certification.
On capacity building (Article 8), Co-Facilitator Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) reported that parties worked on objective, principles, support and reporting, paring each to one option through a bridging proposal, and saying that differentiation is a crosscutting issue that remained unresolved.
 \t\t\tParticipants agreed to language proposed by the UK, supported by \t\t\tCanada and Norway, to clarify that the Report concerns scientific \t\t\tprogress since the TAR.
ARGENTINA said standardized baselines and benchmarks should be optional.
SENEGAL highlighted limited capacity to prepare national communications.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need to address the nature and scope of the mechanisms.
  The G-77/CHINA expressed concern over slow progress and said conclusions on several agenda items should be adopted in Poznań.
Identifying the need for the LEG’s work to get under way, the EU proposed focusing discussions on the work programme.
MICRONESIA called for methodologies to help countries determine emission reduction projections and supported SWITZERLAND’s request that the Secretariat develop a directory related to AIJ work.
The EU noted a proposal to continue \t\tconsiderations up to SBI 24.
Among voluntary mitigation action, ECUADOR highlighted pillars to implement REDD+, including: its REDD+ action plan; a reference level of forest emissions from deforestation; and a national forest monitoring system.
The US emphasized that there are multiple emission pathways to reach 450 ppm, and highlighted that the US takes a long-term perspective through the development of a comprehensive national cap-and-trade programme with binding interim goals.
 On this issue (FCCC/SBI/2012/INF.3 and FCCC/TP/2012/1), NAURU stressed the importance of the item for AOSIS and said discussions on an international mechanism on loss and damage should start already at the current session.
HUNGARY pointed to: decreasing CO2 emissions per capita; increased climate change public awareness; and the upcoming adoption of the second national climate change strategy.
Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, and CHINA said sections on market and non-market approaches, and new market-based mechanisms could prejudge discussions under the Subsidiary Bodies.
ZIMBABWE said some action should be taken despite current uncertainties, including further research and development on: reduction of emissions without reducing consumption; clean coal; diversification; and win-win actions.
On mitigation by developed countries, the EU highlighted the need for: comparability criteria to guide the negotiations; MRV that builds on experiences and practices under the Protocol; and a linkage with the AWG-KP discussions.
On the proposed agenda, the G-77/CHINA called for a discussion on the basic principles for a compliance regime.
JAPAN said response measures were not so relevant to Annex \t\tI and therefore, they should be discussed in the right context.
KENYA questioned the rationale for establishing new drafting groups facilitated by the same people, considering their inability to complete the work so far.
Australia and US asked for time to consult, while the EU preferred to discuss the points of divergence between the two drafts.
CHINA proposed a long-term technology goal and that developed countries regularly assess and prepare a list of technologies “ready for transfer.”
Switzerland, for the EIG, said parties should blame themselves for engaging in procedural discussions.
The EU suggested that parties address institutional arrangements within clusters of issues and avoid being overly prescriptive.
On impacts of response measures, BRAZIL proposed a workshop to help further develop economic models.
 During informal negotiations, the US and others questioned whether the G-77/China proposal could be improved in consistency, transparency and comparability.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, underscored regional distribution, and proposed exempting small-scale projects in LDCs from the additionality requirement.
KUWAIT noted his disappointment that the developed countries\' proposals do not mention any provision for developing countries\' compensation.
IRAN highlighted the need for financial resources for national communications, which would help build capacity.
The EU and UZBEKISTAN sought GEF resources to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their observational work.
On the draft conclusions, the Gambia, for LDCs, sought to add reference to LDCs in one section.
INDIA suggested the group elaborate a robust set of rules on accountability and enhancement of mitigation ambition.
The words “unstoppable” and “irreversible” became common qualifiers to describe climate action and momentum articulated by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, at his last COP, UNFCCC Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa, at her first COP, and US Special Envoy for Climate Change Jonathan Pershing, at his 22nd, and hopefully not final, COP.
The EU and others suggested organizing a workshop proposed by the Secretariat with the IPCC, preferably after COP-6 and after the completion of the work of the IPCC Third Assessment Report.
TUVALU, supported by BRAZIL, emphasized the need for transparency in discussing REDDplus and raised concerns over initiatives by certain parties to consolidate text.
NEW ZEALAND noted the table shows commonalities that indicate space for taking the text forward.
Others, including the EU and Peru, for AILAC, supported focusing on reporting.
AOSIS stressed the need to look at the overall ambition “as the atmosphere sees it,” and proposed looking at “two packages,” namely, increasing domestic efforts where possible and “looking elsewhere” where enhancing domestic efforts is not possible.
The EU identified divergence on interchangeability between CERs and ERUs, and, with JAPAN, noted convergence on cost effectiveness, environmental benefits, equity and transparency.
CHINA proposed merging the chapeaus of options a and c of paragraph 132.4 on establishment by all parties of means to facilitate access to and the deployment of technology.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that the private sector does not only exist in developed countries and highlighted the need to improve “readiness” to absorb the anticipated increase in levels of funding.
The EU requested changing the date of submission from 15 August to 15 September to allow time for preparation.
The US said the US Country Studies \t\tProgram was one of the first to carry out vulnerability assessments, and \t\tFRANCE noted efforts to undertake vulnerability assessments of French \t\tcoastal zones.
Spain, for the EU, welcomed progress on the NWP, the EGTT’s work programme and standardized baselines under the CDM.
 MALAYSIA said its proposal had been omitted and added a reference to setting up a one-stop information center, providing financial resources, preparing comprehensive catalogues, disseminating information and assessing the suitability of technology.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need for full substantive discussion on the item and the EU called for compilation and synthesis of information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), said COP 16 should demonstrate that the international community will deliver a legally-binding outcome within a clear deadline.
 \t\tNEW ZEALAND identified deforestation and technology as \t\tpossible elements.
JAPAN, the EU and other developed countries opposed a spin-off group on technology.
CHINA cautioned that Article 13 states an MCP would only be available to Parties, “on their own request”.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the Protocol is central to the future of the climate change regime.
With JAPAN, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, she supported deletion of text that relates to establishment of a permanent forum under the SBI.
 \t\tResponding to comments on the resolution of models, the US urged \t\tavoiding discussion of precise details and instead developing notional \t\tcategories.
Noting that REDD has been on the SBSTA agenda before, AUSTRALIA said REDD should not be considered in the same category as other new issues.
BELARUS stressed that the road to significantly raising ambition runs through appropriate social policy and sustainable economic strategies, rather than through technical reforms.
BOLIVIA observed that equity is a key principle to solving the climate change crisis by linking rights and obligations.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, suggested the following benchmarks for a successful outcome in Doha: an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol effective as of 1 January 2013; ambitious quantified emission limitation or reduction objectives (QELROs) by Annex I parties; limited access to flexibility mechanisms by those Annex I parties that will not be undertaking commitments during the second commitment period; and addressing carry-over of surplus AAUs.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), called for stabilizing concentrations below 350 parts per million (ppm) and limiting temperature increases to below 1.5ºC.
Regarding draft conclusions on assessing the status of implementation of Article 4.9 (LDCs), Tanzania, for the LDCs, objected to references stating that SBI expressed its satisfaction at the progress achieved so far in implementing the LDC work programme.
GRENADA said his country would not support new mechanisms, unless there is a cap on the use of offsetting by developed countries.
On the GCF, ZAMBIA called for speeding up direct access modalities for disbursement of funds and accreditation and support to national entities.
On \t\tbundling, the EU and several Parties cautioned that larger projects \t\tcould be ef bf bddebundled ef bf bd into smaller projects to take advantage of \t\tsimplified modalities.
SOUTH AFRICA said the programme should support and enable implementation at the national and regional levels.
The US stressed “new major achievements” in Copenhagen, highlighting that the Accord was based on collaborative effort by parties and that nearly two-thirds of parties have associated themselves with it.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), emphasized, inter alia, the need for: a global response to adaptation; a fully functional Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage; advancement on long-term finance and MOI; and developed countries to increase ambition, honoring their commitments under the Protocol.
The EU said a new institution or mechanism could only be defined when new functions or emerging needs are identified as not being met by existing institutions.
Uganda, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), lamented that their proposals had not been clearly reflected in the text, with GABON noting that the overall picture seemed to be lost.
GERMANY noted the absence of a clear carbon price \t\tsignal after 2012 and the need to signal prices for longer periods to \t\tsecure investments.
NEW ZEALAND urged parties to accept a paragraph on the revised scale of contributions for 2016-2017 given that the Secretariat would otherwise lack sufficient funding for the 2017 programme of work.
Noting that there is no agreed way to evaluate social impacts, BOLIVIA requested deleting text on social impacts.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the importance of addressing sources of finance and mechanisms for dispersal.
INDONESIA said sinks could be eligible if carbon sequestration is real and measurable.
AUSTRALIA supported a global goal of halving emissions by 2050 and a peak in emissions no later than 2020.
KUWAIT called for long-term international solutions to minimizing the adverse effects of response measures.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for assessing the need for an intersessional meeting to ensure a balanced treatment of all issues.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that the time spent discussing response measures at this session was disproportionate, saying such work will not lead to a balanced outcome in Durban.
SAUDI ARABIA said the documents are part of a delicate compromise package and must be adopted together.
EGYPT and BRAZIL stated that bunker fuel coverage must apply the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
CANADA noted that national communications already provide a channel for information exchange and that it is premature to establish a new permanent forum on negative consequences.
BAHAMAS, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for a Review of the adequacy of the long-term global goal and opposed efforts to extend the scope of the Review.
\t\tSWITZERLAND, supported by KOREA, BELGIUM, and others, noted that \t\treferring only to stabilization and not to reduction of greenhouse gas \t\tconcentrations is prescriptive.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, said proposals based on current and planned activities should also be discussed.
KAZAKHSTAN said it intended to join FCCC Annex I. JAPAN, the US, AUSTRALIA and others welcomed the initiatives by Kazakhstan and Argentina.
SWITZERLAND stressed the need to introduce more stringent regulations, improve air traffic management nationally and internationally and use economic instruments such as eliminating tax privileges on aviation fuel.
Malawi called for differentiated treatment for the LDCs, SIDS and Africa in accordance with the BAP.
UGANDA explained differences between NAPAs initially intended for urgent, short-term adaptation measures, and national adaptation plans, which he said are medium or long term.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the provision of finance for increasing developing countries’ ambition.
The NETHERLANDS suggested accounting for capacity-building when planning the GEF ef bf bds third replenishment.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, accepted the proposal, but stressed that discussion under Item 5 (matters related to the Kyoto Protocol) should allow time for Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
India, \t\tsupported by Saudi Arabia, China, and several other G-77/China Parties \t\tand opposed by the EU, Russian Federation, South Africa, AOSIS and \t\tseveral Annex I Parties, suggested that the proposal be amended stating \t\tproceedings of the Seminar will be made available by the Secretariat and \t\tare not intended to lead to a process for further commitments by \t\tdeveloping countries.
BRAZIL highlighted integration of natural and social \t\tsciences.
Many parties welcomed the trust built during the first week, but raised concern over the negotiations e2 80 99 slow pace, with the EU and US highlighting that the Secretariat could have undertaken most of the editorial work.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said a clear definition of climate finance is lacking, and underscored the need for new and additional finance.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, cautioned against establishing linkages with other elements of the Paris Agreement prematurely.
CANADA made a distinction between automaticity and predetermination of consequences.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by JAPAN, preferred deleting reference to languages other than UN languages.
On accountability and transparency, MEXICO highlighted the need to identify areas for improvement and the link between efficient and transparent application of rules and their ability to impact the attainment of goals.
JAPAN supported parallel discussions on actions by developed and developing countries.
NORWAY and SINGAPORE suggested that the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) update the group on recent activities, while SAUDI ARABIA said this was not the venue for observer organizations to give reports.
The US said it would continue to play a leading role in addressing climate change and is moving ahead with science-based measures.
The AFRICAN GROUP explained the proposed framework would provide a strategy to guide the Technology Mechanism.
INDIA supported discussing review of global goals but opposed reviews that are not in the Convention.
The G-77/CHINA, and VENEZUELA preferred "identifying" actions.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by AOSIS, proposed referencing the existing approach under the 1996 London Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter.
The EU suggested including, inter alia, no regrets mitigation options and the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations.
BURKINA FASO, ETHIOPIA, ZAIRE, the GAMBIA, KENYA and CHAD highlighted the difficult economic and social context for developing countries in Africa and noted that increasing problems of desertification and drought indicate climate change.
Opposed by the EU, the G-77/China suggested removing reference to Article 4.2 throughout the draft decision, noting that such reference was judgmental.
The G-77/CHINA noted the importance of maintaining linkages among paragraphs, as well as essential elements on principles and support.
A drafting group of about 30 delegates began negotiations Tuesday night, working from a paper circulated by the G-77 and the EU and US draft decisions from INC-11.
CHINA underlined the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and SENEGAL stressed the value of NAPAs and called for greater commitment to the LDC Fund.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that building a new regime takes time, identifying Durban as the next step in the process that can move forward the Cancun undertakings.
SAUDI ARABIA, with CHINA, INDIA, OMAN and ETHIOPIA, called for a focus on Annex B and Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I further commitments).
Supported by the US, she said the guiding principles for additional activities under Article 3.4 already exist in the FCCC and Protocol, and questioned the need for a list.
JAPAN said their mid-term target was also based on a comprehensive legal framework.
On the section on Adaptation and development (Chapters 14-17), the US noted that the title of the section is misleading since development issues are addressed in a separate chapter, and the title was changed to Adaptation.
BANGLADESH supported regional innovation centers, with INDIA proposing a network of such centers.
UGANDA underscored the urgency of the LDCs 92 concerns.
In response to a request by the EU, reference to waste minimization and recycling of agriculture and forestry residues was added in the guidance to authors.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, described its proposed framework on technology development and transfer.
 The US suggested focusing on targets, outcomes and QELROS so that overall reductions can take place while Parties who find targets burdensome can trade emissions with others.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, noted the important work of the Adaptation Fund.
The Gambia, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), underscored the need to resolve outstanding issues to enable adoption of a second commitment period.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, called for a “satisfactory outcome” to ensure that developing countries are able to access support, including for national communications and biennial update reports.
India, for the LMDCs, with Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested: replacing e2 80 9cstarting in 2019, should consider quantitative considerations of MOI e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cshall provide, by the first quarter of 2015, information under annex II, e2 80 9d and referencing the provision of MOI to developing countries for a timely preparation of their INDCs.
AOSIS, the AFRICAN \t\tGROUP, TANZANIA, and INDIA called for extension of funding for \t\tadaptation from other mechanisms.
The US and EU highlighted numerous reasons for diversification unrelated to climate change.
VENEZUELA and BURKINA FASO expressed concern about a tandem review process where both SBSTA and SBI review the joint contact groups’ guidelines and decisions.
CHINA noted that a decision on standardized baselines would mean micromanaging the CDM Executive Board’s work.
AUSTRALIA and the EU opposed, with the EU saying the proposal would not create the clarity required for coherent political discussions.
On guiding principles and approaches, CANADA suggested removing a specific reference to the GEF, noting that it was covered under a reference to "multilateral and bilateral funding agencies."
Noting low \t\t \t\t \t\tper capita \t\temissions, high projected growth and the need for sustainable \t\tdevelopment, INDIA stressed cooperative action on technology research \t\tand dissemination, in particular on energy efficiency and risk \t\tmanagement.
SAUDI ARABIA was offered reassurance that the decision does not set \t\ta deadline of 93before 2006 94 for applications for financing subsequent \t\tcommunications for Parties that have had an initial disbursement more \t\tthan five years ago.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, and Malaysia, for the LMDCs called for, inter alia, limited parallel meetings.
Japan and others stressed the need for a legal framework for commitments by Protocol non-parties, including the US.
 QATAR, which will host COP 18, said his government will spare no efforts to ensure its success.
Nauru, for AOSIS, underscored that the overarching issue for consideration in Doha is the level of ambition of Annex I parties’ commitments, observing that the proposed QELROs derive from previous pledges that are “plainly inadequate” for the scale of the challenge.
JAPAN underlined the importance of recognizing past support for adaptation and, with MOZAMBIQUE, highlighted institutional and managerial capacity building, and training for vulnerability assessments and response measures.
Noting that insurance transfers risk but does not reduce it, AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, underscored risk reduction strategies.
The US called for annual ministerials on pre-2020 ambition in conjunction with the COP.
On the timing of \t\tnon-Annex I national communications, the EU suggested three years.
Underscoring environmental integrity, Nauru, for AOSIS, stated that AOSIS “has not lost faith,” but will continue working to ensure that “we leave with something better than what we came with.”
ARGENTINA expressed a reservation on the percentages applied for the indicative scale of assessment for the programme budget for 2004-5 and for the interim allocation for the Protocol.
Delegates provisionally agreed to the EU proposal pending the outcome of relevant discussions in the mechanisms group.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, said discussions on information, methods and tools for socioeconomic scenario-building should be included, while NEW ZEALAND suggested that the issue should be discussed with ef bf bdprojections ef bf bd matters.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, applauded broad progress made in Bangkok but pointed to a lack of advancement on specific items.
TANZANIA, with the G-77/CHINA, suggested adaptation be seen in the context of sustainable development.
She noted that the EU is on track to lower its levels and hoped that all Annex I Parties could follow suit.
  On this issue (FCCC/SBSTA/2013/INF.3, FCCC/SBSTA/2013/MISC.1, Add.1&amp; 2), Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for an overarching decision on rules and procedures for the second commitment period.
MICRONESIA called for support in capacity building, particularly in the area of monitoring sea level rise.
The US, with the EU, said the aim of the consultative process should be "meaningful and effective action."
Paula \t\tDobriansky, Under Secretary for Global Affairs, US, underscored her \t\tcountry ef bf bds commitment to the UNFCCC and highlighted efforts to combat \t\tclimate change, including through multilateral scientific and \t\ttechnological initiatives.
The EU explained the purpose of cycles or process is to increase ambition over time.
On the impact of response measures, Japan, supported by the US, but opposed by China and Brazil, stressed that non-Annex II Parties able to support developing countries should be encouraged to do so.
MEXICO, presenting a Mexico-AILAC proposal, with JORDAN, supported a global goal that includes an aspirational vision.
THAILAND highlighted vulnerability of rural areas.
NIGERIA emphasized the importance of technical capacity building through training and other necessary financial assistance.
Switzerland, for the EIG, expressed concern that only one element of the transparency framework has been discussed because of time constraints and urged a balanced allocation of time.
He called for an agreement in the early part of this week on biennial reports, biennial update reports and, with JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, urged progress on issues related to transparency, including IAR and ICA.
On capacity building, Nepal, for LDCs, stressed that institutional capacity building is a priority need and called for the immediate implementation of the work programme under UNFCCC Article 6 (education, training and public awareness).
SOUTH AFRICA, the SUDAN, BOLIVIA, MEXICO and MAURITANIA proposed including in the CDM the concept of emissions avoidance.
BANGLADESH reminded developed countries about their obligations.
In response to this position, SAMOA suggested that Parties should then consider retroactive liability rules for trades that have already occurred.
India, the EU and Iceland underlined the need to enhance regional capacity.
The EU stressed that Parties must start with domestic action and said flexibility mechanisms, which must be cost effective and verifiable, should not create loopholes that weaken the commitments to be made at COP-4.
The EU outlined elements of the “fine and balanced” Durban compromise, consisting of: a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; a pre-2020 mitigation work plan; agreement by 2015 applicable to all; concluding the AWG-LCA; and operationalizing the institutions created in Cancun and Durban.
The US said it is important to consider biophysical risks together with socio-economic vulnerability and proposed using a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches.
The UK suggested adding a bullet on contrails and cosmic rays to improve the understanding of policymakers on these issues.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION argued against the creation of the Executive Board, suggesting the Secretariat could undertake its functions.
Several parties welcomed the AOSIS text as a helpful proposal to move discussions forward.
The US called for focusing on: the structure of the section; the relationship to other sections in the text; and differentiation.
The US and Japan bracketed the list of activities aimed at improving the transparency, effectiveness and comparability of P&amp;Ms. Japan and the US, opposed by the EU and G-77/China, advocated deleting the link between P&amp;Ms and demonstrable progress.
India, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA, and CHINA (BASIC), underscored that the Paris Agreement Work Programme (PAWP) should support enhanced ambition without “back-sliding” on rules.
MOROCCO, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, appealed for a focus on adaptation, and emphasized the need to operationalize funds created under the Protocol and UNFCCC.
SOUTH AFRICA urged parties to revisit pre-2020 mitigation commitments already on the table and called for a process to consider increased developed country ambition.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, welcomed timely progress on the Poznan strategic programme on technology transfer, noting important work ahead.
However, until the US and the G-77 are able to reach a compromise on the size and composition of the TAPs, these panels may only remain a good idea.
Nepal, for the LDCs, urged a focus on, inter alia: “concrete outcomes” on the NWP; finalizing the institutional arrangements between the CTCN and TEC; and ensuring a role for science in the Review.
JAPAN and the MARSHALL ISLANDS said consideration of compensation was unacceptable, since it is not provided for in the FCCC or the Protocol.
UZBEKISTAN, for the CACAM group, proposed the definition "developing countries and other countries not included in Annex I."
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that MRV must fully respect state sovereignty and that there are no sub-categories of developing countries in the Convention and the BAP.
SINGAPORE called for financial and technological support by Annex II countries and indicated that a reference to Convention Article 3.5 (open international economic system) may be sufficient to reflect trade concerns, unless there is consensus to elaborate.
The US proposed two devices: a “clarity component” whereby each party provides information regarding their contributions; to be coupled with a “consultative period” of three to six months, during which parties have an opportunity to analyze each other’s measures.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the goal should be aspirational and not serve as a basis for burden sharing.
After parties agreed to merge the two chapeaus in paragraph 131.4 of the consolidated text on elements on intellectual property rights, AUSTRALIA argued that further streamlining would be difficult, calling for moving to other paragraphs.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the successful adoption of the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol will be the single most important outcome from Doha, expressing the hope that the AWG-KP will finalize its mandate regarding all outstanding issues.
The G-77/CHINA said the Chair had achieved a remarkable \t\tbalance of concerns, leaving everyone equally unhappy.
The US suggested making TEMs more concrete and outcome-oriented, and making information available before and after TEMs.
The G-77/China, AOSIS, Singapore, China, India and Venezuela identified the balanced operationalization of the Cancun Agreements as the second key outcome from Durban.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for the establishment of a framework, including a two-year work programme, on gender and climate change that goes beyond participation of women.
EGYPT observed that climate change mitigation efforts are costly and entail severe constraints, primarily on developing country fiscal budgets, and questioned the extent to which it is fair and equitable to impose strong mitigation demands on developing countries.
The EU and NORWAY supported the use of GWPs, with the EU highlighting the GWP approach as the most suitable for converting emissions to a common equivalent unit.
The EU, Japan, Australia and New Zealand called for addressing the issue, with the EU stressing the need to decide what happens to CDM projects in EU member states that are non-Annex I parties.
TUVALU opposed this, stressing that it should be considered during the AWG-KP’s discussions on LULUCF.
On mitigation under the AWG-LCA, one of the most problematic and political questions is related to proposals by the US, Australia and the other Umbrella Group countries for a framework on mitigation for all parties.
PERU, RWANDA and GAMBIA called for concrete measures to support and enhance capacity in vulnerable countries, and MAURITIUS called for Parties to give practical meaning to technology transfer.
Stressing urgency, the Philippines drew attention to the severe drought in her country and called for early and predictable progress toward the US$100 billion commitment for annual financial support.
They also agreed to forward to the COP unbracketed draft decisions on: the establishment of an LDC Fund; guidance to the financial mechanism for the operation of the LDC Fund; and guidelines for the preparation of NAPAs.
AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA emphasized the need for the Special Climate Change Fund to support adaptation activities.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA supported discussing the actions of all parties, not just of Annex B parties.
TUVALU and BARBADOS expressed disappointment at the deletion of items 3(e) and 4(e) and sought reassurance that these items would be taken up by the AWG-LCA.
On crediting and project lifetime, the EU, supported by a number of Parties, urged for long-term crediting.
AOSIS said parties should be guided by “what the atmosphere sees” to ensure the effectiveness of pledges.
CHINA proposed deletion of the reference to \t\tspontaneous combustion, stating that this represents a natural \t\tphenomenon and not an anthropogenic source.
Ecuador, for ALBA, said negotiations should be transparent and inclusive.
With the PHILIPPINES, the EIG also drew attention to interlinkages with ongoing work on the GCF and the need to strengthen these linkages.
Referring to the Chair’s list, BOLIVIA said he does not “trust” voluntary pledges, and supported implementing clear commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
He explained that five proposals were submitted under Convention Article 17 before COP 15 by Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, the US and Tuvalu, and a sixth proposal was made by Grenada for AOSIS in 2010.
Switzerland, Chile, for AILAC, and South Africa supported a compliance mechanism.
THAILAND, Malawi, for LDCs, and ARGENTINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, supported establishing a spin-off group on finance.
SWITZERLAND, with SOUTH AFRICA, said it should be possible to call on outside experts.
 \t\tMaldives, for the LDCs, and Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF \t\tSMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), challenged a scenario projecting GHG \t\tconcentrations of between 445-490 parts per million (ppm) and a change \t\tin global mean temperature above pre-industrial levels of between \t\t2-2.4 b0C.
ICELAND underscored the proportional impact of single projects on small economies.
BENIN, supported by UGANDA and CHAD, said that scientific assessments were difficult for developing countries in Africa and stressed the need to improve human resource development.
The US cautioned against potential overlap between consideration of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects) by SBI and consideration of the IPCC TAR by SBSTA.
GHANA, for the Africa Group, urged developed Parties \t\tto provide financial and technical assistance.
The US proposed a new section relating to matching action with support, whereby parties would establish an entity to provide technical assistance in identifying needs and financial resources.
The US and several others stressed the need for all countries to take nationally appropriate mitigation action.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said work should focus on LULUCF, market mechanisms and common metrics.
On Rules of Procedure for the Compliance Institution, the US, with AUSTRALIA, the EU and CANADA, suggested focusing on the elements needing agreement at COP-6, such as the decision-making rule.
The EU questioned how additionality could be ensured if Parties did not comply with Protocol Articles 5 and 7.
GHANA suggested that the Secretariat prepare a synthesis of submissions and key questions for parties to answer.
The US, COSTA RICA and MICRONESIA called for an electronic template for reporting, clear rules for participation and a schedule for submissions.
SAUDI ARABIA reminded Parties that the UNFCCC is not an \t\tenergy convention.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, the EU, Belize, Chile, for AILAC, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Turkey endorsed the Co-Chairs’ text.
The EU and Canada supported requesting the Secretariat to develop a technical paper, containing a compilation of existing guidance on adaptation communications.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BRAZIL, MEXICO, GHANA and CHINA, called on parties to reaffirm their commitment to a second commitment period and finish the AWG-KP’s work in a timely manner.
On Thursday, 3 December, in the contact group, the EU, Colombia for AILAC, the US, and others said that the INDCs imply self-differentiation.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA opposed non-procedural paragraphs.
MEXICO highlighted challenges with engaging all levels of government in adaptation.
Delegates then considered a draft proposal by the LDC Group for a COP decision on the establishment of an LDC expert group, including an annex containing terms of reference for the group.
On the scale and sources of finance, the G-77/CHINA said clarity on scale is required to determine how developing countries will be able to contribute to the agreement.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that given the limited number of developing country delegates it would be hard to work simultaneously in drafting groups and Plenary.
The EU supported the decision accepting Germany’s offer.
AOSIS said payment in a voluntary fund would actually provide Parties with an additional flexible mechanism.
• invites parties and relevant organizations to submit to the Secretariat, by 1 August 2014, information on their experiences with implementing the remaining elements of the LDC work programme; and
AUSTRALIA underscored that the science is clear.
On adjustments, SLOVAKIA, the US, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA said all inventory problems were adjustable, while the EU said inventory problems of a specific threshold were not adjustable.
In response to a question from the EU, he clarified that the African Group renewable energy proposal is not a separate initiative, but rather intends to accelerate existing initiatives e2 80 99 progress toward their goals.
 IRAN reminded delegates that the Convention contains provisions on sources and sinks and calls for balanced action.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by ECUADOR, BOLIVIA, MALAYSIA, ARGENTINA, IRAN and others, opposed adopting the agenda and stressed his earlier proposal to delete item 4 and amend item 3 to include “all elements of ” Decision 1/CP.17.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern about the pace of negotiations and supported further discussions on MRV and ICA.
IRAN stressed minimizing losses due to adverse effects and impacts of response measures on developing countries with economies dependent on fossil fuels.
The EU indicated that stable and transformative environments include not only support but also, for example, creating policy frameworks and tackling subsidies.
COLOMBIA, CHILE and VENEZUELA emphasized the vulnerability of all developing countries.
ITALY stressed that countries should undertake structured \t\tglobal action for de-carbonizing the economy, including multilateral and \t\tbilateral mechanisms.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed the need to identify and prioritize options with high mitigation potential.
MALAWI urged parties to think of this issue holistically, including in relation to REDD+.
 On global warming potentials (GWPs), INDIA expressed concern about inconsistencies in their use and asked for comparability in reports.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed deep concern that the current pace of work was too slow, and requested the Presiding Officers to give “decisive and strong” guidance.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested sub-issues under market use could be “shuffled” at a later stage.
NEW ZEALAND said that only those issues where there was a clear mandate to report back to COP 18 should be discussed.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at slow progress and urged Annex I parties to raise the level of ambition in their current mitigation pledges.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU were not prepared to speak on the issue.
Argentina, opposed by the US, questioned the appropriateness of the emissions intensity measurement.
SAMOA explained that the process of inventories adjustment illustrated a precautionary approach to compliance.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed willingness to comment on the text.
On paragraphs 7 and 8, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, the Umbrella Group, the EU, and the US opposed inviting submissions or technical papers.
SOUTH AFRICA supported both mainstreaming adaptation into development and individual adaptation actions.
On information submitted under Article 7.2 (national communication), the EU, supported by Saudi Arabia and opposed by the US, Canada, New Zealand and Australia, proposed reporting on "demonstrable progress."
The US asked what the IPCC recommended for next steps in its work and how the IPCC relates to the SBSTA.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that the text would benefit from further technical work and that some core issues in the AWG-KP will require consultations at the political level.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, called upon SBSTA to clarify methodological issues before substantive issues are discussed.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, underlined the importance of national, regional and international adaptation centers and highlighted that, while adaptation on the ground should be recognized, parties should avoid creating a burdensome mechanism for MRV of adaptation activities.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the importance of assisting economic diversification in oil-exporting developing countries, and supported tax restructuring in Annex I Parties.
ARGENTINA, PANAMA and BURKINA FASO underlined the need to integrate the preparation of national communications in the development process of host countries.
The G-77/ CHINA stressed its principles on LULUCF and the need to exclude credits for natural uptake.
La 92avasa Malua (Samoa), Chair of the LDC Expert Group (LEG), outlined outcomes of the LEG 92s activities, noting that many LDC stakeholders had expressed the need for longer-term support.
The EU, Costa Rica, Australia, Canada, and Brazil welcomed the operationalization of the platform, with the EU indicating readiness to consider establishing a facilitative working group and Costa Rica asking for balanced representation at the first multi-stakeholder workshop.
The G-77/CHINA and BRAZIL urged consistency with UNFCCC language and preferred inserting "other countries, particularly developing countries."
The Panel approved accreditation of three intergovernmental organizations of relevance to the IPCC’s work: the South Centre, the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
 The UK: John Gummer, Secretary of State for the Environment, noted that in Rio developed countries agreed that they had enjoyed the benefits of development, and must now shoulder the burden.
The SBI adopted conclusions on arrangements for intergovernmental meetings for: COP/MOP-1 (FCCC/SBI/2002/L.16 and Add.1); the date and venue of COP-9 (FCCC/SBI/2002/L.10); and effective participation in the UNFCCC process (FCCC/SBI/2002/L.13), recording that the EU did not agree with the last conclusions as the text had not previously been discussed.
TUVALU underscored the importance of discussing rules in the context of a second commitment period, rather than as an information base for negotiations in other tracks.
NORWAY identified the need for reformed financial architecture designed to meet the scale of financing requirements.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for inclusion of reference to countries with economies in transition, including in relation to capacity building and other support for preparing national communications.
The AFRICAN GROUP called exclusion of “African countries” from preambular paragraphs on specific needs “a red line.”
Intervening on a point of order, the US emphasized that they would oppose any effort to discuss their emission reductions in the context of Annex I emission reductions under the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA suggested initially considering parts of the text relating to operational aspects of the financial mechanism.
BOLIVIA identified the need for compensation for climate impacts in developing countries and penalties for non-compliance.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, also requested more time for review and noted the number of proposed amendments.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and the US proposed alternative text listing activities relating to the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 (Article 4.8 and 4.9) to reflect that progress had been made.
EGYPT urged new funding mechanisms and improving existing ones, such as the CDM.
While commending work undertaken, Colombia said that this did not provide adequate reassurance that the US$100 billion target would be met.
The US said: TNAs, capacity building and enabling environments should be dealt with separately; more clarification was needed on concepts such as “incentive mechanisms” and “technology information;” no convergence existed on the need for a body to oversee action; and references to finance should be moved to the finance section.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported looking at the key elements that would constitute a decision on finance.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said delegates did not have enough time to analyze the SAR to develop recommendations.
\t\tJAMAICA noted the absence of consideration of SIDS in global climate \t\tmodeling.
The US said its design for the compliance system is focused on Protocol Article 3 (GHG reduction and limitation commitments) and provides for both facilitative and enforcement functions.
SWITZERLAND suggested a 93post-verification model 94 wherein emission reduction units could not be transferred until they have been certified to be excess Assigned Amount Units (AAUs).
The EIG called for a solid work plan, agreed in Bonn, that includes milestones and a timetable, and leads to a smooth adoption of the future regime in 2015.
 The PHILIPPINES said the references to Article 4.1 must not be taken in isolation.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the impact of GWPs on mitigation potential.
On the budget for conference services, the US, Japan and Canada said conference expenses should be borne by the UNFCCC budget and not the regular budget of the UN General Assembly (UNGA).
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to enhance pre-2020 action and to respect the “delicate balance of all issues” achieved in Paris.
Papua New Guinea noted that some G-77/China parties sent “public servants” to negotiate the Accord instead of their Heads of State or Government, and that these officials were to blame for “striking a lot of substance out of the document.” The US noted broad participation of about 30 countries in the development of the document.
Protocol ratification: Numerous Parties supported the Protocol 92s entry into force by Rio+10, 2002, including, inter alia: BULGARIA, CARICOM, the EU, FRANCE, GERMANY, HAITI, IRELAND, ITALY, JAPAN, SPAIN, SWEDEN, and the UK.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), Argentina and El Salvador, called for Annex I countries e2 80 99 leadership on mitigation, and provision of finance and technology transfer.
GERMANY reported that during the recent Petersburg Climate Dialogue, ministers discussed how to reflect in a 2015 agreement a variety of commitments, based on CBDR and taking into account the dynamic nature of the climate challenge, as well as responsibilities, capabilities and national circumstances.
AOSIS supported mandating the Chair to develop a new draft negotiating text.
The US said legally-binding consequences need not be punitive and highlighted that she supported a deduction from the following commitment period with a 1.3% penalty rate as well as a restriction on the transfer of units also applicable to Protocol Article 4 (joint fulfilment) Parties.
CHINA proposed that information on MOI by developed countries be verified through a technical review process, followed by a multilateral assessment process and conclusions with compliance consequences.
Chile and CARICOM called for a definition of climate finance.
The EU and others said the purpose of technical assessments is to improve non-Annex I communications.
The ORGANIZATION OF ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) emphasized that effective action against climate change requires strengthened international cooperation and concrete national policies.
 The EU noted progress on the operational strategy and the Memorandum of Understanding between the GEF and the FCCC.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called, inter alia, for: guidance from the UNFCCC; coordinated efforts by developing and developed countries; social and environmental safeguards; the avoidance of perverse incentives; and policies to tackle underlying drivers.
The G-77/CHINA said centers of excellence should be discussed in the context of their proposal on technology.
They took place in a spin-off group on numbers/text, co-facilitated by Sandea de Wet (South Africa) and Jürgen Lefevere (EU), and informal consultations on matters relating to the second commitment period, facilitated by AWG-KP Vice-Chair Uosukainen.
IRAN expressed concern it would impose a burden on small delegations.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Maldives, for AOSIS, the EU and Angola, for the LDCs, said their statements would be uploaded to the UNFCCC website.
AOSIS expressed concern over the lack of adequate financing for adaptation and proposed establishing an adaptation fund under the Convention.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the US and CANADA, supported adoption by a decision.
After a proposal to delete “other parties in a position to do so” and hesitance about the term “finance gap,” parties deleted the paragraph and inserted slightly-amended, agreed language, which notes the lack of funding in the LDC Fund (LDCF), and urges parties “and others” to contribute to “the LDCF and/or the GCF.” With other amendments, parties agreed to the draft conclusions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by AUSTRALIA, the EU, Costa Rica, for AILAC, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, MONGOLIA, ARGENTINA and CANADA, and opposed by Bolivia, for the LMDCs, and Maldives, for AOSIS, called for continuing work on the “rulebook” of the Paris Agreement in the second week.
COP 20 President Pulgar-Vidal, COP 21 President Fabius, and COP 24 President Kurtyka e2 80 93 e2 80 93who have been meeting since August in a “COP Presidents’ Council” e2 80 93 e2 80 93collectively stressed the need for a just ecological transition, with Fabius emphasizing the importance of long-term political vision, and Pulgar-Vidal calling for a “COP 24 High-Ambition Package.” In other hints at enhanced ambition, one seasoned delegate hinted that “the HAC is back,” referring to the “High Ambition Coalition” from Paris that is coalescing anew here in Katowice.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed concerns over offsetting, while indicating that his country is willing to consider market approaches that promote sustainable development but are not offsetting.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, discussed their proposed institutional arrangements, including a displacement facility and a technical panel.
On the draft conclusions on research and systematic observation (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.2), the EU requested deleting the paragraph on SBSTA’s invitation to GEF to include, in its report to the COP, the specific steps it has taken to implement the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of decision 2/CP.4 (guidance to the operating entity of the financial mechanism), stating that it was addressed elsewhere.
ICELAND noted that this issue was identified at COP-3 and it was raised now to facilitate ratification of the Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, AUSTRIA, HONDURAS and COSTA RICA said nuclear power should not be permitted within the CDM.
AOSIS drew attention to the Barbados Programme of Action and emphasized regional efforts in addressing capacity building needs.
CHINA said ICA should be a technical process led by a group of technical experts.
GHANA, supported by SENEGAL, proposed amendments to the Board’s rules of procedure to enable the Board to be represented by its Chair and Vice-Chair.
Canada noted that the topic had not received the same attention in the scoping meeting as the other topics, and with Australia, the Netherlands, the US and others, suggested drawing out information that is relevant for UNFCCC Article 2 from other topics and including it in boxes, possibly throughout the text, instead of having it as a separate topic.
On Thursday, 4 December, Japan and the EU called for accelerated project registration.
On deepening understanding, SAUDI ARABIA noted that the issue to be addressed is more fundamental than wording in the text suggests, and that improving institutional capacity is not directly relevant to minimizing impacts of potential consequences.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a balanced science-based outcome in Durban to implement both the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, and opposed by BRAZIL, TUVALU and others, suggested assuming zero emissions or removals for cases of soil carbon saturation in cropland management.
The EU called for ensuring environmental integrity and avoiding double counting under CORSIA, and said action under the IMO should not be delayed until 2023.
The G-77/CHINA disagreed, saying that they were unable to undermine well-established UN practices on equitable geographical distribution and rotation principles.
The US recommended reporting this in Annex I communications.
IRAN stated that one session would not be sufficient for adequate consideration of the review process.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, noted convergence on identifying elements for a Cancun outcome and called on parties to be flexible and accelerate the pace of negotiations.
ARGENTINA, supported by CHINA, said that the TORs should not include contentious issues being discussed in the AWG-LCA and should focus on activities under the Convention.
The US identified drivers of emission reductions since their peak in 2007, including: energy efficiency measures; local- and state-level leadership; switching from coal to natural gas; and renewable energy deployment.
In response to interventions from Belgium and China, Lynn said that the SROCC’s approval is expected to take place on the same day as the 2019 UN Climate Summit in New York, US, and that the report will be publicized during the Summit.
The US noted that the IPCC-18 decision does not specify a full-time position, which was confirmed by the Secretariat, who noted that the decision on hiring staff was dependent upon agreement on an outreach strategy.
Mexico, for the EIG, called for progress on: MRV, especially regarding guidelines for the reporting of domestically supported NAMAs; methodological guidance on REDD+; methodological work on good practice guidance on land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF); and grouping all matters related to response measures under a single agenda item.
Supporting \t\tthe G-77/China, SAUDI ARABIA requested the Secretariat to exercise \t\tcaution when making statements on behalf of the UNFCCC, and ensure that \t\tviews of all Parties are adequately reflected.
BELARUS called for taking into account the specific characteristics of countries with economies in transition.
The US requested detailed documentation of programme spending and accomplishments.
MALAWI and the GAMBIA requested special consideration for vulnerabilities, capacity building, technology transfer and capacity building needs of the LDCs, SIDS and Africa.
In Plenary on Wednesday, 10 December, Co-Chair Romero reported to SBI on the informal consultations, noting lack of agreement on further guidance to the LDC Fund.
The EU identified institutional arrangements, enabling environments and financing as critical issues to address.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, supported by India, emphasized that a second commitment period is necessary for a successful outcome in Durban and added that the fact that some Annex I parties are not confirming a second commitment period means that technical issues need to follow political ones.
On paragraph 8 (expertise), delegates agreed, based on proposals from GHANA and the EU, that the Multilateral Consultative Committee should comprise persons nominated by governments who are experts in relevant fields, such as science, socioeconomics and the environment.
Co-Facilitator Kelley Kizzier (EU) identified three issues to be resolved within this package: observers making submissions; guiding submissions; and linkage with the lists.
On compliance, the US said this was a matter of domestic law.
SAUDI ARABIA drew attention to Article 8.
BRAZIL stressed the need for having text forwarded to the COP and COSTA RICA expressed willingness to start negotiations at “another level.”
CHINA, with the US, expressed preference for a single worldwide accreditation body.
Argentina, Australia, the US, the EU and the Russian Federation proposed looking at possible criteria for differentiation.
The US emphasized the need for a component of unconditionality in parties e2 80 99 mitigation contributions.
Parties then engaged in a conceptual discussion to provide additional input for the Co-Chairs, as proposed by Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA.
Australia, with the EU and US, said they had agreed to a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 on the understanding that it would be a “joint” workshop with decision 1/CP.10, but that it could be worded as either a workshop where the issues were “considered together” or “back-to-back.” Saudi Arabia argued that these were distinct issues that should not be linked.
The US outlined his country’s proposal for establishing a technology hub, which would provide full-time experts available to parties.
However, brackets remained in several places, including on \t\treference to economic diversification, SIDS and LDCs.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to accelerate the negotiating process.
Richard Muyungi (Tanzania), Chair of the LDCs, said implementation of numerous elements of the LDC work programme remain incomplete.
On non-Annex I party efforts, the EU noted that reported actions have been forwarded using different matrices.
SAUDI ARABIA said the use of market-based mechanisms would burden developing countries.
He underscored priorities such as the adaptation work programme, the SCCF, and the LDC and Adaptation Funds.
The G-77/CHINA, MEXICO, SOUTH AFRICA and COLOMBIA drew linkages with mitigation and MOI.
MEXICO, the LDCs, the EU and TANZANIA called for referencing gender-sensitive approaches, with some parties also emphasizing human rights and ecosystem-based approaches.
On Wednesday, 4 June, Chair Stoycheva presented the interim financial performance for the biennium 2002-2003, which notes outstanding arrears of US$8.5 million.
Grenada, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for discussion regarding the share of proceeds for adaptation under the AWG-KP, maintaining that few changes are needed to the rules governing the flexible mechanisms and LULUCF.
SOUTH AFRICA recommended that COP 13 convene an open working group \t\tto facilitate refinement of key ideas.
Many countries supported a goal of keeping temperature increase below 2˚C above pre-industrial levels, with AOSIS underlining 1.5˚C and Bolivia 1˚C.
On loss of mechanisms 92 eligibility due to reporting failures, Parties agreed on an EU package proposal including loss of eligibility triggered by: failure to submit an inventory; and exceeding specific Annex A source category thresholds.
Following the introduction of the draft text from the mechanisms group, SAUDI ARABIA said the G-77/CHINA was not in a position to comment on the text.
SWITZERLAND supported clustering paragraphs on transparency and reporting.
EGYPT, supported by several developing countries, said elements of the proposed Protocol amendments have also been submitted under the Convention and the AWG-LCA, lamenting this “triplication” of efforts and urging focusing on “the real thing.”
AOSIS, supported by COLOMBIA, called for inclusion of their proposed figures for Annex I parties (at least 45% below 1990 levels by 2020 and more than 95% by 2050) in the conclusions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted progress on, inter alia: the NWP; development and transfer of technology; research and systematic observation; and the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
The US, MALAYSIA and SWITZERLAND said the Special Report could provide guidance in continuing the work on implementing FCCC Article 4.5 (technology transfer).
CANADA proposed to build on the success of the Nairobi Work Programme.
BOLIVIA suggested submission by 2012.
Venezuela, for ALBA, condemned the “selfishness” of predatory economies that are destroying the existing climate regime to replace it with a voluntary approach that will be lethal for the planet.
Annex II of the CMP decision contains political declarations on surplus AAUs, where Australia, the EU and its member states, Japan, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Norway and Switzerland declare that they will not purchase/use surplus AAUs carried over from the first commitment period.
On co-financing, JAPAN and the US said a reference to the importance of co-financing for GEF projects should be retained.
During discussion, the US, with Canada, urged applying the policy only to academic researchers, adding that if other types of requests are received, revision of the policy could be considered at that time.
The Russian Federation and the EU supported the text as drafted, because it shows that a larger number preferred Alternative A to B.
BRAZIL said this anchoring provision avoids duplication.
With SWITZERLAND and the US, she suggested focusing on operational elements.
 NEW ZEALAND emphasized the importance of flexibility with respect to time (multi- year average emission limitations); place (emission trading); and coverage (all GHGs and sinks).
CANADA highlighted the notion of fostering least-cost approaches by using existing institutions as much as possible, reforming them to the extent necessary and exploring new institutional arrangements where gaps exist.
GERMANY, AUSTRIA, and \t\tKENYA highlighted the relevance of the figure and supported keeping it.
The EU put forth less specific text noting the need to develop improved understanding of the financial potentials of available and new mechanisms.
UGANDA recalled the Millennium Development Goals and said climate change "cripples" developing country economies, hindering sustainable development.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA and BURKINA FASO, said there was no group support for an item on voluntary commitments and, with CHINA,called for transparency in drafting high-level statements.
The African Group, South Africa, Chile, for AILAC, Panama, for CfRN, Nauru, for AOSIS, Brazil and Mexico called for building on the existing MRV framework, with some suggesting it could evolve over time.
On   AOSIS noted, inter alia, that risk reduction and management should: have a special window in the financial mechanism; address both extreme and slow-onset events; and include both risk reduction and insurance components.
Supported by NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, the EU proposed to move paragraph 133.2 on strengthening the Technology Mechanism to decision text, noting that these issues are currently discussed under the COP.
CHINA, supported by INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA, said identifying modalities for communicating information on the provision of public financial resources to developing countries in accordance with Paris Agreement Article 9.5 (ex-ante finance transparency) is a “homeless issue” that is lacking progress, calling for allocating time and two co-facilitators for this issue.
Colombia, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), called for a coherent and balanced set of recommendations for the CMA.
NEW ZEALAND underscored that if there is a significant change of rules, it would have to recalculate its target.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, suggested that an ex ante review only cover mitigation and MOI, not adaptation.
She described the AWG-LCA text as a mercantilist vision that pretends to “save us” but places a price on the future, saying the fate of the world is worth more than US$100 billion.
The US queried the decision not to specify the SBI and SBSTA.
The US questioned proposed windows for “adaptation” and “mitigation” technologies in the financial mechanism.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA underscored the willingness of many parties to include mangroves, tidal salt marshes and seagrass meadows under the agenda item on research and systematic observation.
The UK commented on the complex mathematical issues raised by choosing either a gross or net approach and their implications.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, supported adopting the guidelines at COP-5.
Bo Kjell e9n (Sweden), Co-Chair of the contact group on UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects), said progress had been made in recent consultations, in particular on Article 4.9, following the outcome of a workshop for LDCs.
He said the US is committed to an economy-wide target not limited by sectors.
 AUSTRALIA, MICRONESIA and ARGENTINA differentiated projects under development from those being implemented.
BRAZIL and others stated this was particularly relevant for Kyoto non-parties.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION disagreed, saying that the SAR fails to identify the permissible level of human impact on the climate system.
 \t\tAustralia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for in-depth \t\tconsideration of indicative ranges of emissions reductions, including \t\tthe contribution of \t\t \t\tAnnex I parties.
AILAC proposed, and parties agreed, that the Co-Facilitators also identify and synthesize the proposals e2 80 99 commonalities.
JAPAN noted areas of convergence in the proposals submitted on environmental and cost effectiveness, equity and transparency.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, supported by Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, and VENEZUELA, did not support the draft conclusion texts as a basis for discussion, proposing procedural conclusions that take note of the co-chairs’ informal notes and decide to continue discussions at SBSTA 48.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed attempts to qualify its emissions reductions as “hot air,” since they compensate for emissions increases of other countries, and have been paid for by a decline in living standards.
The EU proposed that the Secretariat also be able to refer questions of compliance.
THE BAHAMAS raised a concern regarding the eligibility criteria to the trust funds and requested this be added to the report of the session, to which the COP 22 President agreed.
The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICAN GROUP, LDCs, AOSIS and the US said that cross-cutting issues under the three thematic areas of the work programme need to be addressed in a holistic manner.
BRAZIL, supported by the GAMBIA, highlighted CCS as a nationally appropriate mitigation action but opposed it under the CDM.
On incentivizing adaptation and creating enabling environments, Bangladesh underlined the need to involve and incentivize the private sector and the US highlighted that recipient countries, not just donors, must play a role in providing incentives for adaptation.
Noting the focus on mitigation, TURKEY, supported by BRAZIL, asked for all components, including adaptation and MOI to be included under INDCs.
In a section of the draft conclusions requesting Parties not using the common reporting format for certain sectoral background data tables on LULUCF to specify alternative formats, CHINA added a specific reference noting that this request included Annex I Parties.
France, for the EU, reaffirmed the EU’s emission target for 2020, urged a reaffirmation of multilateral will in Poznań, and highlighted linkages between climate change, biodiversity, poverty and inequality.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported either discount or multiplication factors, and ARGENTINA expressed support for multiplication factors.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for successful completion of the AWG-KP in order to make progress on a new protocol under the ADP, and supported a five-year second commitment period.
 \t\t\tThe US proposed adding language to explain limitations in the \t\t\tavailability of precipitation data in some regions.
The US emphasized that revisions to the modalities, procedures and guidelines be made by consensus.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need for MRV to cover the impacts of Annex I countries’ mitigation policies on developing countries, urging that developed countries should specify their measures in order to minimize these impacts, and cautioned against the use of tariffs and barriers to trade.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NAURU, suggested placing the paragraph under dynamic elements.
The EU, supported by the US and Canada, endorsed text on pilot and/or demonstration projects that support the concept of learning by doing.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said no new sink categories should be adopted until accounting difficulties have been resolved.
 EGYPT said work to address climate change was currently underway and added that commitments from developed countries were an essential component to its continuation.
The G-77/CHINA identified the need to consider ways of combining elements of the text, while maintaining party ownership and representing all views in a balanced way.
Switzerland, with the EU, proposed that the UNFCCC Secretariat regularly report on relevant World Trade Organization (WTO) activities.
The JUSCANZ group was represented by Australia, the US and a country to be nominated, and the Eastern European Group was represented by the Czech Republic and Russia.
On the issue of burden of proof for complying with the eligibility criteria, SAUDI ARABIA said the good faith principle required that a Party be considered "innocent" until proven "guilty."
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, expressed hope for progress on the CER registry’s transparency, double counting and CDM loan schemes.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that new processes requiring further political development, as well as unresolved issues, should continue to be considered by the AWG-LCA.
The EU noted that its future national systems would fulfill quality and time requirements, and expressed concern about the continuous increase in GHG emissions since 1997.
The US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed organizing workshops instead of a negotiating session.
 MALAYSIA and THAILAND opposed inclusion of additional activities under Protocol Article 3.4 in the first commitment period.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, noted that a second commitment period under the AWG-KP is “fundamental,” reiterating that efforts to impede agreement will be detrimental to developing countries.
The US and SINGAPORE indicated that there are other avenues to discuss IPRs.
ZAMBIA called not only for pledges but also that they be e2 80 9chonored, timely, transparent and predictable.
CANADA said the Marrakesh Accords give sufficient guidance on the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 and stressed the need to strengthen adaptive capacities and mainstream climate change adaptation into national sustainable development strategies.
INDIA stressed that NAMAs are bottom-up voluntary actions, and said that an international registry would provide a way to translate national proposals into NAMAs.
The US clarified, and SBI Chair Chruszczow confirmed, that at this point, the SBI only approve the revised agenda, leaving the operationalization of these items for later.
They felt that it was a weak document that does not refer to the clear need for reduction targets and only pays lip service to the AOSIS draft protocol.
On continuing information exchange, delegates discussed revised text proposed by the US on "considering ways" to facilitate cooperation on P&amp;Ms under Article 2.1(b) (cooperation on P&amp;Ms).
CANADA noted financial implications of \t\tthe Secretariat ef bf bds= role as legal advisor.
Canada, the US and Australia stated that the current process works well, and opposed any modifications at this time.
Canada, the EU, Norway, Japan, Russian Federation and New Zealand favored retaining it in some form, and discussions continued late into the night.
Centro Mexicano de Derecho Ambiental, on behalf of the Climate Action Network, stressed that the fate of Kyoto Protocol is in the EU’s hands and called on Japan, Canada and Russia not to destroy the Kyoto Protocol.
MEXICO called for starting work immediately on text streamlining.
AOSIS suggested that a distinction be made between mandatory elements of a technical nature and other mandatory requirements such as reporting on domestic compliance.
CHINA noted that discussions beyond the amendment of Article 3.9 (Annex I parties’ further commitments) are outside the mandate of the AWG-KP.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by ALGERIA, stressed the need to address the impacts of response measures in the context of adaptation, highlighting that in Copenhagen, political leaders, including those from AOSIS and the LDCs, agreed to such an approach.
Schedule of meetings for 2000-2001: On Tuesday, 3 November, in the SBI plenary, the EU, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed that COP-5 be held in 2000 rather than 1999.
 : On Section L, the Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed text on a robust compliance system to facilitate enforcement.
Responding to US concerns, delegates accepted an EU proposal to merge paragraphs 10 (deliberations) and 11 (governance).
SRI LANKA cautioned against oversimplification of the SAR findings, stating that ambiguities have resulted from the use of “extreme” numerical values.
CANADA noted submissions on strategies and approaches that can increase clarity.
CHINA noted that the COP has not adopted some SCF reports.
The EU, supported by INDONESIA, proposed that the SBSTA develop terms of reference for IPCC work on CDM modalities for LULUCF during its current session.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that nationally appropriate mitigation actions (NAMAs) by developing countries are distinct from quantified mitigation commitments by developed countries and proposals must reflect this, avoiding treatment of mitigation contributions of all parties in a non-differentiated, unified manner.
The US, EU and AUSTRALIA objected to this suggestion.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the AFRICA GROUP, suggested a cap of 25-30%.
The EU suggested reporting requirements be standardized, simplified, and more reflective of project cost effectiveness, and encouraged workshops.
NICARAGUA thanked the Parties for their support and noted that the region will require continued support.
 In the contact group co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Walid Al-Malik (UAE), Parties debated whether the contact group should focus on the process for considering the TAR, or on substance of the TAR.
SAUDI ARABIA stated there was no consensus and suggested that if the whole text were bracketed, then all texts should be bracketed.
CHINA supported reference to enhancing existing institutions in the agreement, while the EU expressed preference for COP decisions.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, Liberia, for the LDCs, and Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with many developing countries, called for a capacity-building body or center to, inter alia: provide a more structured and holistic approach to capacity building; analyze gaps in, and help in the implementation of, activities; monitor implementation; increase coherence and synergies among activities; publicize financing opportunities; assist the LDCs in building climate resilience; and support country-driven actions.
 The UK highlighted its energy efficiency strategy, saying that it will reduce the amount of imported gas and create jobs.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, said technology transfer modalities in the agreement should be in accordance with the Convention e2 80 99s principles.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more attention to institutional arrangements.
INDIA recommended identifying the technical and political issues that may not be completed in Doha, including a timeframe for peaking of emissions, and issues of long-term finance and trade-related IPRs, in order to determine how to take forward that work.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that the COP invite the IPCC to prepare guidelines for baselines.
CANADA said soil sink projects should be included under the CDM.
The EU, US and AUSTRALIA favored text requiring that second national communications be submitted within three years of the availability of financial resources.
The EU and GABON shared views on how various processes under the Convention facilitate the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with the EU emphasizing the role of the TEMs and international actors outside the UNFCCC.
AUSTRALIA said her country’s pledge envisages the use of LULUCF “as fully as possible” and objected to setting a cap on the use of LULUCF.
Several OECD countries supported the Co-Chairs" text as drafted.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, requested time to consult, noting the group’s surprise that the second document contained bridging proposals embedded within the compilation text.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN, pledged support for the efforts to adopt a legally-binding, equitable and ambitious agreement.
Bhutan expressed concern that the LDC Fund will be inaccessible to most LDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC said \t\ttechnological change requires political will to remove the barriers that \t\tprevent use and diffusion of new technologies.
In the agreement, SOUTH AFRICA urged reflecting: adaptation finance; linkage between the temperature goal and adaptation; and expression of adaptation needs in regular cycles.
 Co-Chair Audun Rosland reported progress on the common reporting format and announced that the EU, with the help of Canada, would present reporting tables on sectoral background data for LULUCF based on IPCC Good Practice Guidance (GPG).
 \t\tAustralia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported the Bali roadmap and \t\tprogress on technological cooperation and deforestation.
SAUDI ARABIA reiterated that developed country Parties should bear more of the burden and accommodate such effects through measures like differentiation.
AUSTRALIA proposed the establishment of a Committee of the Whole (COW) chaired by a facilitator vested with the requisite authority by the COP-5 President.
The US then asked for similar descriptions of other energy sources.
UNEP advocated a "package" approach involving NAPAs, the LDC expert group and the LDC Fund.
The US said references to commitments under the Protocol may be premature, questioned the interpretation of Article 4.2 (a) and (b) (fulfillment of commitments by developed country Parties) and objected to the focus on international aviation.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted impacts on international trade and suggested, inter alia, elimination of green protectionism in Annex I countries, removal of subsidies, a comprehensive approach without targeting specific sectors, and support for economic diversification.
AUSTRALIA, the COOK ISLANDS and GRENADA also welcomed the upcoming UNFCCC special event on observer participation at COP 17.
CANADA \t\t\trecalled that discussions at COP 9 did not include a calculation of \t\t\tthe implications of the tonnage limit and suggested that the CDM \t\t\tExecutive Board could undertake a revision.
BOLIVIA highlighted a recent proposal by her country that developed countries should achieve their QELROs domestically and not through market mechanisms.
AOSIS stressed problems with sinks in the CDM due to scale, reversibility, leakage, uncertainty, and negative environmental and social impacts.
GHANA suggested that the question go to a drafting group.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested a new guiding principle that all investments become low-emission and resilient to climate impacts in the context of the mitigation goal.
With the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and VENEZUELA, but opposed by CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, he supported text referencing Protocol Article 18 (non-compliance) in the establishment of the compliance committee.
He reiterated the EU’s willingness to reduce emissions by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020 as part of a global agreement, provided other countries take comparable commitments.
Addressing the initial operative paragraphs of the text, delegates deliberated how to address views on insurance, with the G-77/CHINA preferring to discuss "possible elements of a work programme on insurance," and the US preferring to discuss insurance and risk assessment.
  At the contact group, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need to operationalize the Fund as soon as possible and noted three issues to be resolved: cost of GEF services; direct access to funds; and the World Bank’s role as a trustee.
The SBI convened in the afternoon to consider the adoption of its agenda, a request from a group of countries from Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM), and a proposal by Croatia on LULUCF.
ARGENTINA recalled its request to include this item on the agenda and noted that no consensus had emerged despite its efforts to encourage consultations.
The US, with Hungary, noted the \t\timportance of clearly defining the functions of a nominations committee.
JAPAN called for streamlined, biennial national communications with information on relevant mitigation actions and periodic full national communications, with expert analysis.
Bangladesh, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), said adaptation should receive priority attention and practical support.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that requests for inputs should not lead to "an open season" for data gathering, some of which may be superfluous.
SAUDI ARABIA said technology transfer required adequate funds and called for an annual financial commitment by donor countries.
The PHILIPPINES said that the content of the annexes should be reflected in the body of the text.
She noted concerns regarding the EU proposal for restrictions on emissions trading, the EU\'s target in light of its economic advantage under their bubble proposal, the breadth of differentiation implied, and EU member state accountability.
Expressing disappointment with lack of progress made in SBI 41, Nauru, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said Lima should have identified how net mitigation can be built into the CDM, including through conservative baselines, shortened crediting periods and cancellations, and looked forward to continuing work on net mitigation in SBI 42.
The US stressed the need to think ahead as new issues arise and to have effective accountability.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported reference to national communications and biennial update reports for communicating commitments, stressing the need to build on existing reporting modalities.
JAPAN stated that the term "operational entities" was unique to CDM and could not be used when discussing JI.
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and others called for the \t\t \t\tDialogue to continue in \t\tnegotiations.
EGYPT suggested revising the SBI annotated agenda to reflect the need for balanced progress.
SWITZERLAND said technical and scientific issues could be addressed unless it would duplicate other bodies’ work.
ARGENTINA proposed making reference to the vulnerability of highly urbanized areas.
MEXICO stressed that their proposal for a green fund was not accurately reflected in the text.
The US said progress was needed at SB-13 on negotiating draft decisions.
South Africa, for \t\t\tthe G-77/CHINA, proposed adding language on “25-40% greenhouse gas \t\t\temissions reductions below 1990 levels” for Annex I parties.
The main focus of \t\tdiscussions was a proposal by the EU to hold a roundtable as a means of \t\tpursuing this issue.
NEW ZEALAND stated that rules must be improved and finalized before new commitments are made.
AUSTRALIA noted that while no changes had been made to the Co-Chairs’ non-paper at this session, it could be updated inter-sessionally.
ETHIOPIA stressed the advantages of multi-project baselines for facilitating projects in places with limited CDM experience.
JAPAN highlighted food security and the need for research on effective soil management.
AUSTRALIA urged parties not to “dilute or delay” the “important work” on loss and damage.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, highlighted that his group is committed to fully respecting the Paris Agreement in a manner consistent with the principle of CBDR-RC.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that despite the lack of adequate resources and technology transfer assistance, non-Annex I countries such as Argentina and Bangladesh are still moving forward.
A contact group, co-chaired by Jim Penman (UK) and Mark Mwandosya (Tanzania), was convened to consider this issue further.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the Adaptation Fund as a successful example of direct access to funding and called for further progress in key issues, including: funding for national communications for non-Annex I parties; the establishment of a technology transfer mechanism; and capacity building needs in developing countries.
SOUTH AFRICA, GHANA and others said that a question-and-answer session had already taken place in Bangkok and urged faster progress under the group.
NORWAY urged agreement on the agenda and Chairs, and called for discussions on the ADP work programme and milestones.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said adaptation action should contribute to economic diversification.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, urged Annex I parties to commit themselves to scaled-up emission reduction objectives in line with science and the reports of the IPCC.
JAPAN then explained its national target of reducing emission by 15% from 2005 levels by 2020, stressing that it included only domestic efforts without flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted progress on REDD and the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
The European Union (EU) emphasized that their decision to participate in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol was taken in the context of the wider package in Durban that leads to transition toward a single global agreement.
On other matters, BRAZIL reported on a recent workshop held to consider its proposal on determining responsibility based on historical emissions.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the package is a good foundation for future work and contains key elements for a climate deal in Durban next year.
NORWAY indicated “strong support” for REDD+, saying they would also provide financial support.
Norway and the EU praised the Co-Chairs’ informal notes as a long-awaited starting point for discussions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that the complexity of agenda items should determine their allocated negotiating time.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, welcomed: the progress on national adaptation plans for LDCs and called for launching the plans as soon as possible after COP 17; the draft conclusions on matters related to LDCs, particularly on the 2011 LEG work programme; the guidance to the GEF to provide support to developing countries in preparing TNAs; and, with the Solomon Islands, the forthcoming workshop on Convention Article 6.
Cautioning against adding more text, BRAZIL, supported by TURKEY, called for constructive engagement to build bridges and find consensus.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted three key issues: ambition and the need for information on the ambition gap; clarification of ambition; and common accounting rules.
With respect to Agreement Article 9.5, NORWAY urged for engagement at the technical as well as at the political level.
ESTONIA, for the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, announced that the group had decided to terminate its activities.
He stressed financing as a key, welcoming the emerging consensus among developed countries to provide approximately US$10 billion annually for the next three years to the Copenhagen Launch Fund.
SWITZERLAND and the US noted that all parties and groups feel there are missing elements in the text.
MALAYSIA compared developed countries’ inability to make meaningful commitments in 1992 to their current lack of good faith over commitments for the period after 2000, and noted they have also failed to fulfill their commitments on transfer of technology.
On rules and modalities, the EU, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested that the new agreement contain high-level MRV and accounting principles, with guidelines and modalities elaborated in COP decisions.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BOLIVIA, said their participation in this session did not imply any acceptance of a possible gap and that focus should be retained on the agreement for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Protocol Ratification: Numerous Parties supported the Protocol 92s entry into force by Rio+10 in 2002 including, inter alia: BULGARIA, CARICOM, the EU, FRANCE, GERMANY, HAITI, IRELAND, ITALY, JAPAN, SPAIN, SWEDEN, and the UK.
EGYPT recommended the establishment of environmental information centers and clearinghouses for the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies.
CHINA stressed innovative funding mechanisms, and the purchase of climate-friendly technologies by developed countries for preferential transfer to developing countries.
 This issue was first considered by the SBI plenary on 14 May and referred to a contact group co-chaired by Elina Bardram (EU) and Wondwossen Sintayehu (Ethiopia).
The EU identified the goal of a future regime as enabling all parties to achieve sustainable development, poverty eradication and climate-resilient growth.
On preparing for CMA 1, SAUDI ARABIA called for consideration of this sub-item jointly with that on taking stock of progress.
CHINA proposed a separate subsidiary body for technology transfer, and a new multilateral fund.
UGANDA, the G-77/CHINA, ARGENTINA and several other developing countries called for focus on actions that will lead to the development and transfer of adaptation technologies.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the US, EU and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed preference for the original title of the draft decision: " 91Good practices 92 in P&amp;Ms among Parties included in Annex I to the Convention."
The US lamented that their submission made in April was not reflected in the text and stressed the need to recognize the political guidance and trade-offs made in Copenhagen.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said assessment of technologies and methods for estimating the effects of measures have not been properly addressed.
The US outlined a three-part approach on the way forward: reflecting each party e2 80 99s choice in the INDC structure; including a principle committing everyone to move forward; and addressing CBDRRC in an e2 80 9cappropriate way.
CHILE, for several Latin American countries, said the results of the ADP should take the form of a protocol or some other legally-binding instrument under the Convention, and underscored the importance of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
The US lamented lack of timely information on non-Annex I emissions and stressed the need to update the Convention in this regard.
Belgium, for the EU, called for an ambitious post-2012 regime and emphasized preference for a single legally-binding agreement incorporating essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
Christobal \t\tBurgos, Directorate General for Energy and Transport, European \t\tCommission, spoke on the EU 92s activities aimed at mitigating emissions.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, SOUTH AFRICA and BRAZIL said that there was no need for adding new subcategories to sector/source categories.
BARBADOS acknowledged the importance of response measures but said the issue should not be mixed with adaptation.
TURKEY, on behalf of WEOG, said the group will maintain the current Vice Presidency of the SBI.
In contrast, the US, Canada and Australia said UNFCCC Article 2 should be embedded within the structure, and not be included as a separate topic.
On the review process, Saudi Arabia, China and others said the review should be completed in Poznań, while the EU, Australia and others identified the need to continue considering some issues under other bodies, such as the SBI.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), noted that the Co-Chairs’ text does not reflect the existential challenge faced by vulnerable states.
This group of \'Friends\' consisted of four members of the EU, four other OECD country representatives, two OPEC countries, two Eastern European countries, and delegates from the Green Group.
The UK \t\tidentified some cross-cutting themes, including financing and scientific \t\tuncertainty, which is particularly problematic for adaptation.
CANADA drew attention to its recent discussion paper outlining various options for P&amp;Ms.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, congratulated the entire world for achieving an agreement that “allows us to better achieve sustainable development.”
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed the need to focus on the key operational elements and emphasized commitment to a strong global agreement to avoid dangerous climate change.
TUVALU noted that newer information may be available that was not considered during the last assessment report cycle.
A workshop was also proposed by many, including the US, and opposed by INDIA, who characterized workshops and submissions as premature.
On 6 November, a package deal between the EU and the Umbrella Group formed the basis for general agreement to be reached among all Parties.
Regarding the next workshop, CHINA said it should focus on exchange of views, not negotiation.
The UK, supported by Norway, cautioned that the US language might be perceived as indicating disagreement between various IPCC bodies, and suggested that the Panel be “kept informed about working arrangements between the IPCC Secretariat and TSUs, and among TSUs.” Brazil supported the UK’s proposal, with the inclusion of a request for periodic reporting to the Panel.
MICRONESIA, ROMANIA and the MARSHALL ISLANDS urged flexibility for developing countries to apply the revised guidelines.
The \t\t\tfinal SPM indicates that carbon prices from US$20-50 could lead to \t\t\tlow-emission power generation by 2050.
BELIZE said that the question of whether capacity building should be considered under adaptation should not be difficult to resolve, and supported mandatory language in decisions.
He reiterated the AOSIS proposal for a multi-window mechanism with insurance, compensation and risk reduction components.
The EU prefers to see GHG emissions levels below 550 ppmv, and it is essential for Parties to bring specific proposals for a legally binding instrument to the table at AGBM-5.
When the matter was taken up again at the end of the \t\t\tmeeting, the US suggested deleting the confidence level and leaving \t\t\tthe rest of the statement.
INDIA called for the provision of sufficient environmental "space" for developing countries to develop.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed that the context is to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
Underscoring CBDR is the political basis of negotiations, CHINA called for balance across elements and clarity on the scope of INDCs and their alignment with national commitments.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said there is a diversity of situations that require flexibility.
NICARAGUA said the focus must be on technologies that are useful, clean and socially appropriate, and technologies should be controlled by the public domain rather than by private monopolies.
Brazil and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, noted that the scope should not be limited to Convention Article 2 (objective).
She suggested, opposed by the EU and NORWAY, deleting paragraphs 82.3-4, 83, 84 and 85 on: simplified access to funding; evolving needs, capabilities and responsibilities; provision of support; a transparency framework; and efforts of non-state actors.
On Wednesday morning, the US reported that the small group had reached a compromise, which modifies the paragraph text and creates two new footnotes.
Delegates were unable to take action on the adequacy of commitments or to begin negotiations on a draft protocol submitted by AOSIS or the proposals for further elements of a protocol submitted by Germany.
BRAZIL said one of the lessons of the FSV is that more general guidance is not synonymous to flexibility, but that detailed guidance could be more helpful for implementation and review.
On other matters relating to methodological issues (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.6), an amendment by FIJI to include reference to regional consultations was accepted.
INDONESIA called for developing performance indicators and innovative funding.
Colombia, for AILAC, described the facilitative nature of the Basel Convention’s Implementation and Compliance Committee, which in non-compliance cases is competent to recognize and assist with capacity needs, and advises the COP to make cautionary statements.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, CHINA and CANADA stressed that sectoral approaches should support, not replace, national targets.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of participation by non-party stakeholders from all sectors.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reiterated that parties must conclude discussions confirming commitment to the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol before moving to negotiations on technical issues.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION questioned \t\t\tproposals from the EU and others to change the order of the \t\t\tparagraphs.
The US and AUSTRALIA cautioned against overly prescriptive guidance to COP Presidencies on high-level engagement.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported a simple and transparent approach, without substantial reporting requirements or conditional funding.
The EU proposed a system for accounting that relies on Temporary Certified Emissions Reduction Units (TCERs).
The US emphasized upfront information and a consultative period as important for promoting ambition and clarity.
SAUDI ARABIA called for a party-driven clustering process.
TUVALU expressed disappointment that the SBSTA had failed to agree on the definitions on afforestation and reforestation, noting that these definitions had been adopted in a COP-7 decision (11/CP.7).
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed including the proposals for frameworks as well as the related structural proposals, stressing the distinction between mitigation by developed and developing countries both in magnitude and legal nature.
The UK underlined an emissions pathway to 2050, set by a carbon budget consisting of four budget periods and said that the carbon budgets of the first two periods will be solely met by the EU ETS and domestic efforts.
Comparing the NMM to the CDM, Artur Runge-Metzger, EU, said the NMM implies more active involvement of developing country governments in creating incentives for emission reductions through policy making at the national level.
MICRONESIA highlighted that since cost of \t\tmitigation seems to be low, more ambitious targets would be possible.
Noting the decision taken to maintain a 5-7 year cycle for the AR6, Canada, supported by Germany, the US, Norway and Ethiopia, opposed specifying an end date and suggested that the term of the Bureau not be longer than seven years.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern with the trend under the Kyoto Protocol towards flexibility based on “promises and reviews,” calling for genuinely legally-binding commitments under the Protocol.
SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA and CANADA supported the Co-Chairs issuing a revised draft text taking account of views expressed at this meeting.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN opposed the deletion, arguing, inter alia, that broader issues of transparency and good governance were involved.
The EU proposed that the Co-Chairs prepare an updated and streamlined text.
JAPAN provided an overview of its capacity-building programmes relevant to the decision.
PAKISTAN highlighted lack of agreement that developing countries’ emissions should “substantially deviate” from baseline levels.
The US and AUSTRALIA noted that the scientific and technical evaluation from the IPCC indicated that developed country actions would be insufficient to meet the aims of the Convention, and the US incorporated this into its submission.
AUSTRALIA proposed including, inter alia, quality assurance and quality control procedures, links between national systems and emissions trading systems and links with the transfer and acquisition of assigned amounts.
The US was concerned about linking several parts of the Convention without actually adding anything.
TANZANIA emphasized that support to countries suffering the impacts of climate change is an equity issue.
COLOMBIA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC and others supported transferring work to the SBs in a focused and structured manner.
TUVALU underscored provisions on prior informed consent and, with the SOLOMON ISLANDS, stressed the need to consider biodiversity.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND, stressed that all options in the text pertain to a second commitment period and emphasized that as they prepare to take on obligations for economy-wide emission reductions, they require clarity on what these commitments would entail.
Many party groupings supported the Chair’s proposal, while Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, objected to the creation of the contact group on institutional arrangements, stating that the first two contact groups would sufficiently deal with this matter.
Noting that the window of opportunity to achieve the 2°C target is closing, the EU stressed the need to speed up work on implementation of the Cancun Agreements, especially concerning mitigation.
The UK stressed the feasibility of implementing the various options.
However, parties agreed on an option whereby each country will determine the mode and source of its contributions in support of the goal of mobilizing US$100 billion.
The US objected to the Chair\'s proposal, saying all ideas must be presented in a complete way.
AUSTRALIA stressed that ICAO and IMO have their own principles and provisions.
On the MRV framework, the AFRICAN GROUP warned against backsliding from the current framework.
BENIN highlighted the need for closer linkages between the GEF focal points and the UNFCCC.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized commitment to the principle of CBDRRC, and procedural transparency and inclusiveness.
NORWAY stressed economy-wide targets as an important way of ensuring comparability, and highlighted the role of market mechanisms.
IRAN criticized a GEF overemphasis on energies.
The EU highlighted progress on adaptation, the WIM, technology transfer and cooperation, and gender mainstreaming, as well as some progress on market mechanisms, with the exception of the CDM review.
Supported by Lesotho, for the LDCs, Spain, for the EU, PANAMA, SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA, COLOMBIA, MALAWI, the PHILIPPINES and NORWAY, AOSIS proposed requesting the Secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the options for limiting global average temperature increase to below 1.5°C and 2°C.
KOREA said project eligibility and baselines are essential in formulating CDM rules.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said a balanced outcome should support developing countries’ adaptation efforts, encourage voluntary participation in international efforts to cut emissions and incorporate a mechanism for implementing financing and technology measures in developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA, opposed by AOSIS, called for a reference to response measures.
LEBANON emphasized modeling to increase understanding of the full impact of response measures, the benefits of technology transfer and win-win solutions in economic diversification.
CHINA said the shared vision should emphasize the principles of the Convention, and GHANA, the LDCs, VENEZUELA, PAKISTAN and ALGERIA highlighted the ultimate objective of the Convention and sound science.
The US and CANADA stressed the needs of least developed countries.
The G-77/CHINA urged discussion of methodologies.
PANAMA opposed holding the flag country responsible for maritime emissions.
  On the report of the Adaptation Fund Board (FCCC/KP/CMP/2008/2), the AFRICAN GROUP, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and others called for rapid operationalization of the Fund and URUGUAY and CUBA urged a decision in Poznań.
NORWAY called for clarity on the various institutional options.
AOSIS cautioned that matching or coordinating mechanisms would add another layer of bureaucracy and said the issues related to problems of access and the insufficiency of financial resources.
The EU made consolidation proposals on a paragraph within option I, which delegates agreed to consider, along with a streamlining proposal by the Secretariat in the same paragraph.
 The US, supported by Malaysia, said that the AGBM is still some distance away from a final text, and suggested that an agreement to modify the Convention could achieve the goal of a protocol without an elaborate legal instrument.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underlined the need to articulate moral and equity aspects in principles.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said that Annex I parties should increase the level of ambition of their emission reduction commitments and, with Grenada, for AOSIS, said loopholes, such as carry over of surplus AAUs and weak LULUCF accounting rules, should be avoided.
On the response measures report and possible recommendations to COP 19, the G-77/CHINA identified consideration of national circumstances and addressing high adjustment costs.
Parties then considered a new submission from Barbados, for AOSIS, and the Gambia, for LDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that progress on this issue is conditional on progress on other equally important issues.
Parties exchanged views: on the special treatment and access modalities for LDCs and African countries; the need to simplify procedures for accessing financial resources; whether certain provisions on measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) of support could be better placed within the transparency section of the agreement; text on enabling environments, results-based payments, carbon pricing and variety of sources, among others.
The US noted that the objective of the Convention cannot be achieved simply through Article 4.2(a) or (b).
New Zealand and AILAC welcomed a list of possible questions presented by the LMDCs, who suggested submissions on information in addition to what is listed in decision 1/CP.21 (Paris outcome) on, inter alia: linkage between the global stocktake and other institutional arrangements; procedural format; inclusion of science; establishment of a SED; timeframe; and possible outputs.
TANZANIA supported merging relevant paragraphs and differentiating between adaptation and mitigation funding.
 Alexia Kelly, US, described the Low-Emissions Development Strategies Global Partnership, which supports strategy development and providing a platform for donor collaboration with developing countries, NGOs and the private sector.
AUSTRALIA emphasized defining realistic objectives for COP-6 and maintaining a clear sense of the different requirements of the Convention and the Protocol.
THAILAND and the US emphasized agro-forestry.
The EU specified that the assessment criteria are useful for the negotiations but not needed in the final text.
SAMOA suggested referring to "eligibility" and "ineligibility," and said a Party had to demonstrate its eligibility before it could participate in the mechanisms.
A number of other countries, including CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, also urged further work on this issue.
KUWAIT noted that COP- 2 took note of, “but did not adopt” the Geneva Ministerial Declaration and that a later reference to the Geneva Ministerial Declaration should be coupled with a reference to another statement adopted by those delegations that did not support the Declaration.
The US highlighted a number of domestic developments including the first contributions to the LDC Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to address differentiation before advancing on elements.
CHINA, the EU, ZIMBABWE, FRANCE and SWITZERLAND said the main objective should be to provide assistance to individual Parties rather than to the COP.
The US and others expressed concerns for the IPCC to undertake the proposed special report on climate services.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed enhancing the compliance system through a new technical panel, and said comparable mitigation efforts should be considered by the COP and COP/MOP for compliance assessment to cover both Protocol parties and non-parties.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, on behalf of AOSIS, expressed concern about the number of Annex I countries failing to meet the relatively soft targets for emissions reductions and supported Japan\'s proposal to include a performance review on policies and measures.
KUWAIT proposed adding socio-economic analysis to the list of methodological topics proposed.
 The EU recalled that the preliminary views of delegations concerning the SAR were recorded in the report of the last meeting.
The US called for all parties except the LDCs to submit mitigation contributions that are quantified or quantifiable.
Supporting AUSTRALIA, JAPAN explained that its main trading partners were not the other Annex I Parties but non-Annex I Asian countries.
The US cautioned against creating separate definitions and urged coordination between different reporting bodies.
Japan noted a COP-7 decision (9/CP.7) requesting the Secretariat to organize a workshop before COP/MOP-2 relating to reporting on minimizing impacts of response measures and, supported by the EU and Canada, said this addressed Saudi Arabia 92s concerns.
\t\tChina, for the G-77/CHINA, and IETA, welcomed the proposal.
The LDCs called for recognition of the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS and said the adaptation section requires more elaboration.
The EU and others, opposed by JAPAN, suggested deleting text on converting CDM projects into joint implementation projects.
The LDCs, AOSIS, Indonesia, and China supported an additional session.
With the EU, he called for more transparency in the negotiations, including a contact group instead of only informal consultations.
CANADA and the US, opposed by PAKISTAN and INDIA, suggested considering preambular text at a later stage of negotiations.
 COLOMBIA: Ernesto Guhl, Vice-Minister of the Environment, stated that developed countries suffer from the “disease of forgetting”, referring to commitments made under the Berlin Mandate.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized that the use of offsets is a “zero-sum game” and suggested: first setting Annex I parties’ targets for domestic emission reductions and then adding a percentage that could be achieved through offsetting; or setting aside a proportion of Assigned Amount Units (AAUs) for the mechanisms.
AOSIS proposed a technical paper outlining: the environmental outcomes and impacts of pledges made; and the impacts on these pledges of different accounting rules and options relating to the flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF.
GEF Assistant CEO Kenneth King remarked on the third replenishment, which will allow the GEF to increase funding for climate change related activities, and noted that the GEF will make initial disbursements under the UNFCCC LDC Fund in the coming weeks.
The EU suggested a step-wise approach to couple nationally-driven action with international coordination, allowing parties to identify different typologies of commitments and declare what kind of commitment they are willing to undertake.
The note also proposes increasing resources through other channels, with the aim of reaching an annual level of one billion US dollars by 2005.
VENEZUELA, BANGLADESH, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, IRAN, SYRIA, KUWAIT, LEBANON, NIGERIA, THE GAMBIA, ECUADOR, ALGERIA, MOROCCO and INDONESIA supported SAUDI ARABIA.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, the US and CANADA said there is no need to emphasize specific aspects of decision 5/CP.7.
BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and others lamented the lack of an option in the text on developed country mitigation on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to strengthen coordination between the AWGs and emphasized that both AWGs should finish their work in Barcelona in November.
JAPAN, supported by the EU, said the experience gained is sufficient for a comprehensive review.
CANADA announced its ef bf bdOne-Tonne Challenge, ef bf bd a social \t\tmarketing campaign for citizens to reduce their emissions.
MALAYSIA urged the simplification of the tables.
The proposals covered a range of issues, including: new reporting requirements; MRV and ICA; types and scope of NAMAs; national sovereignty; the NAMA registry; support for NAMAs; nationally supported NAMAs; national inventories; and special reporting conditions for SIDS and LDCs.
 \t\t\tThomas Kolly, \t\t\tSwitzerland, highlighted Switzerland\'s efforts to reduce emissions \t\t\tover a number of sectors, adding that his country had among the \t\t\tlowest per capita emissions in the OECD, but faced a looming \t\t\telectricity supply gap in the future.
PAKISTAN and EGYPT preferred e2 80 9clegal parity e2 80 9d between mitigation and adaptation.
On a paragraph acknowledging the support being provided to developing countries for the preparation of INDCs, and the need for such support to be further enhanced, the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by the US, preferred e2 80 9csome developing countries.
CHILE, for Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Panama, called for means of implementation to address both mitigation and adaptation.
On the implementation of capacity building action and related institutional arrangements, TURKEY proposed including reference to “other developed country parties defined under Convention Article 4.3” in relation to the provision of support to developing countries.
The EU expressed disappointment that delegates had not agreed to establish GEF as the permanent financial mechanism this year.
TUVALU expressed “extreme disappointment” with lack of progress under the AWG-KP and, opposed by INDIA, urged consideration of parties’ proposals for Protocol amendments as “a lifeboat for a sinking process.” South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA, the PHILIPPINES, CHINA, Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, OMAN and ZAMBIA, requested further time to resolve outstanding technical issues in the AWG-KP’s text.
AOSIS stressed recognition of the specific circumstances of particularly vulnerable countries, and inclusion of loss and damage.
The US, SINGAPORE and SWITZERLAND expressed preference for not including a footnote.
The EU, the US, NORWAY, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by others, suggested discussing the preamble later, once substantive sections have taken shape.
JAPAN, CANADA and NORWAY called for joint informal discussion, highlighting the need to engage with the US, while BRAZIL and INDIA said that delegations have members in both AWGs and can coordinate positions without having joint sessions.
The EU called for discussions on amendments in relation to mechanisms and said LULUCF should focus on reference levels, force majeure, and harvested wood products (HWPs).
The US proposed reducing \t\tthe UNFCCC budget by US$2 million, while Japan proposed reducing the \t\toverall budget by US$3 million.
Belarus, supported by the US, Canada, China and Australia, asked for more time to assess the revised proposal.
JAPAN, the US and others questioned the proposed three categories of outcomes or consequences.
NEW ZEALAND further noted that consideration of the host country increases complexity without added environmental benefit.
On Wednesday, 12 June, Armenia, on behalf of a group of countries from Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM), said the group was seeking clarification on the definition of the term "developing countries," and on their status in the context of UNFCCC decisions, including those prepared at COP-6.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said cooperation must be based on CBDR and historical responsibility, and should focus on the negative impacts of climate change and response measures.
On individual efforts, MEXICO cautioned against prescriptive obligations.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that the SBSTA should ask the IPCC to provide global warming rates, emission trajectories up to 2020, and global warming potentials.
In response to questions from the Netherlands and the UK, the Secretariat clarified that the working capital reserve would come from the existing general reserve and would also be replenished from general reserves within the Trust Fund.
The G-77/CHINA enquired about the World Bank’s performance reviews and whether it would be possible to request information from entities, which had conducted these reviews.
On expert review teams (ERTs), the G-77/CHINA recommended drawing on a roster of experts and reflecting regional balance.
The US and Benin said that any such proposal should be reviewed by the full membership of both subsidiary bodies.
 Saudi Arabia, China, Kuwait, Venezuela, Argentina, India and others, opposed by the EU, Singapore, Mexico, Australia and the US, suggested considering trade measures.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for robust provisions in the 2015 agreement on developed country support, and periodic review of these commitments.
The Umbrella Group, EIG, AOSIS, the EU and Costa Rica stressed the need for a strong political signal that ADP work is on track.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted additional issues for consideration, including CDM reform and expansion, and continuation of the CDM after the first commitment period.
The EU welcomed the JISC’s work, encouraged it to promote transparency of its decision-making and requested parties to pledge sufficient funding.
He said OECD countries should provide a leadership role and that the GEF should be strengthened.
Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the comparatively small amount of money made available for adaptation.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for an omnibus decision that will include all items related to the Paris Agreement.
The NETHERLANDS stated that the key issues are clearly spelled out in the BM, and that assessments and analysis should not be used to determine whether policies and measures are needed.
CANADA identified the need to further discuss the extent to which all funding activities could be concentrated in a single institution, cautioning against assuming that “bigger is less costly or more efficient.” He also called for ensuring broad representation and participation.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA stressed that the paragraph relates to his country’s proposal and suggested leaving it bracketed without further informal consultations, saying they were unlikely to yield results.
JAPAN emphasized the need for coordination with the AWG-KP, especially concerning the CDM.
CHINA highlighted increases in Annex I countries’ emissions since 1990 and high per capita emissions.
ef bf bd DENMARK, \t\topposed by AUSTRALIA, and supported by CHILE and AUSTRIA, called for \t\treferencing biomass in this section.
TURKEY stressed the need to reflect interests of developed countries with special national circumstances.
The UK noted the need to frame the discussion in WG II in terms of risk and risk management.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, supported focusing negotiations on issues that could be agreed and reaching a balanced agreement.
The Republic of Korea, also for the EIG, said that: biennial reporting is relevant for the transparency framework; national designated entities should actively participate in the transparency framework; and discussions on Agreement Article 9.5 should be substantive rather than political.
While supporting enhanced ministerial engagement, AOSIS expressed doubt about whether a longer high-level segment would translate into greater ministerial engagement.
The US said the COP decision taken in Doha only mandates the submission of views by parties and a workshop.
Antigua and Barbuda, speaking for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), lamented that the negotiations have not reflected a sense of urgency about climate change and called for progress on the AWG-KP and developed country commitments.
Following a question by BRAZIL on the compatibility of such a deduction with the objective of "making the atmosphere whole," she said this deduction, although necessary, would not be a sufficient incentive for ensuring compliance during the budget period.
The ARAB GROUP recommended a contact group to assist the Co-Chairs and Presidencies to ensure parallel progress among the bodies.
ARGENTINA said adequacy of support is also an important component of the global stocktake.
CUBA noted the importance of accessing technologies and knowledge.
AUSTRALIA said that a Cancun outcome should capture progress and could include: an intention to work towards a second commitment period; text to serve as the basis for negotiations; a schedule; and clarity on rules, such as on LULUCF and the mechanisms.
The US said the list should mention all relevant Articles and suggested 20 Articles for inclusion.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, Jamaica, for AOSIS, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and Senegal, for the LDCs, called for the agreement to establish a new capacity-building mechanism.
INDIA and SOUTH AFRICA said workshops could be integrated into the negotiating process.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, supported by Algeria, for the African Group, Grenada, for AOSIS, Lesotho, for the LDCs, and many others, expressed concern at attempts to merge the two negotiating tracks, and at the call for a single legal outcome in Copenhagen.
The UK and Austria recommended adding a second plenary session next year in order to have enough time to respond to the IAC Review; however, after further discussion, the Panel agreed that a four-day plenary session would be preferable to two two-day plenary sessions because of both time and resource constraints.
The G-77/CHINA objected, and said the Group would consult on this matter internally.
 The NETHERLANDS said there are reasons for harmonizing P&amp;M because some measures cannot be taken at the national level without distorting the global market.
China, the EU and Saudi Arabia provided specific suggestions to improve the repackaging of the paragraph.
 URUGUAY: Juan Antonio Chiruchi, Minister of Housing, Land Settlement and Environment, stressed the need for urgent and accelerated action and expressed disappointment with Annex I Parties’ lack of compliance with the FCCC.
CANADA discussed an emissions reduction target of 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 highlighting a domestic sector-by-sector emissions reduction plan.
CANADA referenced \t\tcarbon capture and storage and the upcoming IPCC report on this matter.
Also, while \t\tthe Umbrella Group and the G-77/China sought strict limitations on \t\tevening meetings, the EU favored a more flexible approach.
AUSTRALIA called for the identification of synergies in technology transfer work under other Conventions.
The US, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN jointly presented proposals on each of the key themes.
He added that the costs of supporting developing country participation would cost US$1.4 million per meeting, while the technical papers and information notes requested from the Secretariat would cost US$1.36 million.
CHINA said the paragraph did \t\tnot provide additional information and it should either be revised or \t\tdeleted.
The US identified “critically important” features in the Durban Platform, highlighting an instrument with legal force for all parties and a path leading further into the future than before.
In a paragraph on communication of the mitigation component of INDCs, Norway suggested: adding reference to unconditionality of efforts by all, while maintaining a reference to enhanced efforts by developing countries made possible with provision of support; and recognizing the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, with the latter proposal supported by the LDCs, with some amendments.
\t\tThe EU informed the COP/MOP that it was sensitive to the funding \t\trequest.
 INDIA, supported by Colombia, acknowledged the Chair\'s draft text but added that the draft could be strengthened with the amendments made by the G-77 and China.
Questioning whether such discussions would be helpful, SWITZERLAND opposed.
The EU, New Zealand and others stressed the need to agree on LULUCF rules before finalizing commitments.
The EU cautioned against making decisions on the legal status at this time.
The EIG stated that discussions on e2 80 9cseparation e2 80 9d may be premature but the agreement should be durable.
 PORTUGAL, HUNGARY, UZBEKISTAN, GEORGIA, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, EGYPT, BANGLADESH, PAKISTAN, MEXICO, BENIN, MAURITIUS, MOROCCO and NEPAL reported on the effects of climate change on their country and national efforts to address the problem.
In the \t\tdiscussion, FRANCE enquired about transport development in China and \t\tIndia.
CUBA, for a number of developing countries, with BOLIVIA, IRAN and Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized that actions to address bunker fuels should be guided by the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and that any market mechanisms in these sectors contradicting this principle would increase costs and affect trade.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to learn from the Kyoto Protocol’s flexibility mechanisms and avoid undermining the current trading system.
The EU cautioned against duplication and said some of these items could be addressed in the SBs or already have a “home” under the CMA.
 The Climate Action Network has been actively lobbying G-77 countries to endorse the AOSIS draft protocol, which calls for a reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 20% by the year 2005.
On the  , the US and some other developed countries felt that there was significant duplication and proposed deleting much of the preambular text in Chapter 5 and streamlining the operative text.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, called for a clear set of modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework, with built-in flexibility to enable LDCs to build their reporting capacity.
NEW ZEALAND explained that NAMA trading would be voluntary and units would be issued upfront and reconciled at the end of the period, while, for crediting, units would be issued after verification.
For example, the US and others wanted to see pathways to 1.5 c2 b0C describing not just the share of renewables in the energy mix, but also shares of nuclear, gas, and fossil fuels with carbon capture and storage.
The US, the EU and New Zealand expressed concern over the proposal.
ARGENTINA noted omissions in the draft decision regarding the scope of the issues, the extent of delay in submission of documents, problems in the implementation of P&amp;Ms, and increasing emissions levels.
The EU, with BRAZIL, requested clarity on how the annexes would be used.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, indicated that he could agree to the proposal with minor amendments.
Canada, supported by the US and Australia, proposed establishing a joint SBSTA/SBI contact group to allow for full deliberation of the Review.
On the development of  , the EU, opposed by several parties, supported establishing benchmarks.
SPAIN, SWEDEN, ARGENTINA, KENYA, JAPAN and others supported taking a decision on the Synthesis Report at this session.
\t\t\tCook Islands and Tuvalu advocated for an IPCC report on SIDS’ \t\t\tadaptation.
The EU acknowledged this need to be prepared for a simple option, but cautioned against giving up on a more ambitious proposal so early.
MEXICO called for improvement of tools to address adaptation needs.
The EU noted that, given its observer status, its contributions appear as conditional and are directed to projects instead of to the Trust Fund.
Mali, for the African Group, requested new paragraphs: to address the lack of parties’ ownership of the TEMs’ preparation; requesting developed countries to present a roadmap to mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020; urging developed countries to include, in their financial INDCs the time frame and periods of disbursement of post-2020 finance; and publishing developed countries’ communications to ensure transparency.
 In this contact group, the G-77/CHINA said mitigation action by developed and developing countries must be different.
While noting the important role of non-state actors, TANZANIA stressed the need to avoid mixing actions by parties and those by others.
Co-Chair Plume introduced Part IV of the guidelines under Article 8, Review of National Systems, based on submissions from the EU and Australia.
 The contact group met in the afternoon to report back on progress in the drafting groups on guidelines for the preparation of NAPAs and the establishment of the LDC expert group.
On further work on CDM, the G-77/CHINA stressed addressing principles and basic elements that are currently not featured in the synthesis report.
BOLIVIA expressed disappointment that developed countries wish to submit their next national communications after a four-year period despite the availability of resources to do so sooner.
CANADA cited examples of inconsistencies in national communications stemming from a lack of clarity in the guidelines and said he would make a written submission.
On \t\tmitigation, SWITZERLAND favored convening expert workshops.
The EU identified areas of convergence including RD&amp;D, capacity building, and policy frameworks and enabling environments.
However, Grenada, speaking for AOSIS, observed that the discussions on legal form had not reached any consensus and therefore should continue in Tianjin, so that an agreement could be adopted in Cancún.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77, said that TAPs should be intergovernmental, with government-nominated members numbering no more than 15.
BRAZIL opposed CCS projects under the CDM.
The G-77/CHINA and US opposed establishing a process for considering the TAR in COP and Subsidiary Body agenda items.
The EU called for assessing the fulfillment of adaptation needs under current arrangements as a basis for deciding on the need for new institutions.
With LIBYA, QATAR and VENEZUELA, he supported discouraging fossil fuel production in Annex I countries.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, SAUDI ARABIA and others supported the inclusion of CCS under the CDM, while BRAZIL and others expressed reservations.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with the lack of time in which to reach an outcome.
94 This was opposed by the EU and some developing countries, \t\twhile AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN favored its inclusion.
BRAZIL observed that his country’s mitigation actions are expected to result in a reduction of 36.1-38.9% below projected emissions in 2020 and highlighted reductions in deforestation and emission reductions in agriculture and energy sectors.
The G-77/CHINA said he needed to consult further within the group, and no agreement was reached.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by MICRONESIA, said the SCCF should prioritize adaptation with regard to economic diversification activities.
Andrew Ure (Australia) and Balisi Justice Gopolang (Botswana) co-chaired a contact group and informal consultations, focusing on the process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and modalities and guidelines for LDCs and other developing countries.
AUSTRALIA encouraged dynamic interpretation of the Convention principles and urged for a common legal platform for inscribing commitments to be implemented in accordance with national circumstances.
 A second “Major Economies Meeting on Energy Security and Climate Change” was hosted by the US Government in Honolulu, Hawaii, from 30-31 January 2008.
On technological development and economic diversification, the US suggested including specific reference to support for least developed countries.
The US requested that the distinctive nature of the facilitative and enforcement components be clearly reflected.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for a commitment from Annex I parties to refrain from using “hot air” AAUs.
GRENADA suggested a technical paper on lessons learned from the SED and a workshop during COP 22.
Maldives, for AOSIS, pointed to the IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 c2 b0C, underscoring the urgency of restoring a spirit of multilateral cooperation not impeded by narrow national interests.
IRAN and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES noted that neither the FCCC nor the Kyoto Protocol provides for voluntary commitments and cautioned that the discussion could lead to the imposition of commitments on developing countries.
CHINA also expressed confusion regarding references to Annexes X, A and B in the proposals and urged Parties to refrain from developing new categories.
BELGIUM, for the EU, highlighted outstanding issues on the mechanisms requiring resolution, including the election of the Executive Board of the CDM.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported by the EU and Japan, opposed adjourning the meeting.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND said the possibility of this participation provided a sufficient incentive for Parties to submit information earlier than 1 January 2007.
The US and JAPAN indicated that Convention Article 3.5 adequately addresses trade concerns.
SAUDI ARABIA noted compulsory licensing under the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property as an option to access climate-friendly technologies, and suggested such technologies should not necessarily be patented.
MALAYSIA expressed disappointment with some Parties’ focus on national communications and inventories and stressed the need for research and systematic observation.
The US called for initiating a spin-off group to carry out technical work on this item by the end of this session, with NORWAY proposing technical discussions in small group settings to develop proposals.
 The US said that referring to implementation was moving too fast because the guidelines are not yet approved.
The EU emphasized the need to resolve issues related to the carry-over of AAUs and the length of the second commitment period.
NIGERIA called for strong and clear commitments for Annex II parties.
The US wants developing countries, except least developed countries, to adopt emissions targets that seek to abate the increase in their emissions.
COLOMBIA and AUSTRALIA suggested focusing on the substantive work and skipping opening and closing plenaries.
Regarding the workshops on insurance and risk assessment, AOSIS proposed text calling on the SBI to invite further views from Parties on the workshop outcomes for consideration by the COP with the aim of agreeing a decision.
On  , South Africa, for the G-77/China, preferred using the Compliance Committee to address implementation of Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects and impacts of responses) and to facilitate compliance under Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and measures).
The US stressed that since his country is not a party to the Kyoto Protocol and does not intend to become one, such joint discussions would not be appropriate.
SENEGAL, supported by CHILE, said that modalities for small-scale CDM projects should be developed.
AUSTRALIA stressed existing voluntary sectoral cooperation initiatives.
 CHINA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and IRAN, stated that substance and functions of an MCP should be discussed before its form, and suggested that an MCP could be an ad hoc committee.
AOSIS stressed the need for accelerating work under the NWP.
On the consequences of the facilitative branch, the G-77/CHINA rejected an EU proposal that does not differentiate between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Commenting on the structure of the non-paper, the EU and ARGENTINA said the text “was disconnected” and that there was no common understanding on the use of terminology, such as technology action plans and roadmaps for specific technologies.
INDIA opposed the concept of national schedules of mitigation commitments and actions, and BRAZIL said that the concept, by combining a reference to commitments and actions, weakens commitments by developed countries.
The US suggested postponing the decision until the production schedule, and scope and content of the Synthesis Report have been adequately addressed.
 \t\tMalaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, said a COP decision should provide \t\tguidance on the review of EGTT; stressed that new approaches to \t\ttechnology transfer should be consistent with the objectives of the \t\tUNFCCC; recommended a high-level round table on technology cooperation \t\tand partnerships; and urged additional resources for EGTT.
BARBADOS, for AOSIS, called for further implementation of \t\tthe Barbados Programme of Action.
The UMBRELLA GROUP said the work of the AWG-LCA should lead to an outcome at COP 15 with action from all parties, considering national circumstances.
CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and AUSTRALIA supported the expansion of research on climate change conducted by IGOs and national governments, particularly in the area of capacity building.
CHINA noted the need for different approaches at international and national levels.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that discussions under the ADP must be party-driven, fully inclusive and transparent, and that the outcome should be in accordance with equity and the CBDR principle.
Australia, New Zealand and the EU said they are not ready to agree to a contact group at this time.
Ecuador, for ALBA, expressed concern with the lack of fulfillment of the legal mandate to achieve ambitious emission reductions.
UK Minister Beckett introduced and the COP adopted a resolution expressing gratitude to the Government of India (FCCC/CP/2002/ L.7).
On Structure, SAUDI ARABIA, with SAMOA, said members should equally represent the five UN regional groups.
UGANDA \t\tproposed developing a work programme.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said differences in group positions on trading could be narrowed.
The EU, Canada and Japan opposed.
INDIA questioned whether the US$100 billion envisaged under the Copenhagen Accord was adequate for covering mitigation and adaptation costs.
The EU highlighted the package of decisions on methodological issues under the Kyoto Protocol as key to ending the “long preparatory work” for the implementation of the second commitment period.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, called for including all sectors in the Paris Agreement.
CHILE listed challenges in BUR elaboration, including a lack of capacity, human resources and coordination.
JAPAN stressed their proposal to express targets as absolute emission reductions, while TUVALU said that having multiple metrics would complicate things and make it difficult to determine Annex I aggregate emission reductions.
 \t\tCOOK ISLANDS called for extended sources of funding for the Adaptation \t\tFund, and REPUBLIC OF CONGO emphasized implementation of the Nairobi \t\tWork Programme.
CANADA called for the creation of an environment enabling input from the private sector.
The EU reiterated its proposed framework for action on adaptation.
Co-Chair Rawleston Moore requested views on elements omitted from the draft conclusions, and CHINA suggested specific issues related to technology transfer, which the G-77/CHINA suggested could be addressed by the Expert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT).
The US, supported by NORWAY and CANADA and opposed by Panama, for the CfRN, requested removing a reference to the Warsaw Framework for REDD+, saying it is not a body under the Convention.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, preferred working from existing informal notes, saying that too few items are mature enough for a single progress document.
CHINA urged for a balanced outcome, which would not be achieved without a second commitment period agreement under the Kyoto Protocol.
 \t\tThe US and BANGLADESH called for the launch of negotiations, with the US \t\tstressing the need to be specific about their substance.
The EU suggested that Parties include information in their national communications on obstacles to implementing Article 6.
On Monday, the G-77/CHINA, AUSTRALIA, US and EU expressed views on the Co-Chairs 92 draft COP decision, with the G-77/CHINA noting that additions would be necessary, and the US urging that the text not be expanded further.
Norway, the UK, South Africa, Slovenia and others supported the concept of rapid updates, particularly in order to meet the UNFCCC’s needs, although others, including Brazil, the US and Mali, expressed concerns, including on how to carry them out credibly and accurately, the frequency of availability of new information, review procedures and the additional workload for authors.
CANADA supported innovative climate finance, and that transparency apply both to donors and recipients.
The EU said these discussions should take priority \t\tgiven the need to process a large number of projects in the next few \t\tyears.
The proposal from the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) garnered widespread support, but was blocked by Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar.
 On the legal character of QELROs, NORWAY, ICELAND, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the EU, CHILE, EGYPT, MOROCCO, MAURITIUS and SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, called for legally-binding commitments for Annex I countries, but MOROCCO cautioned against negative impacts on developing countries.
INDONESIA outlined her country e2 80 99s e2 80 9csmall e2 80 9d contributions to the GCF in the context of South-South cooperation and encouraged other developing countries to make pledges as well.
AOSIS agreed, stating that the impacts on SIDS and the most vulnerable countries should be the benchmark for measuring the levels of ambition.
 \t\tHUNGARY, AUSTRALIA, AUSTRIA, CANADA, NORWARY and the NETHERLANDS noted \t\tthe importance of outreach on the CCS Special Report.
The EU agreed that it is up to parties to decide and that he believes the CDM will continue.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the APA to give equal attention to all issues, and for flexibility for developing countries in the transparency framework.
NEW ZEALAND said elements in the agreement should be durable, future-focused and applicable to all parties.
The US and CANADA indicated that the issues raised by Articles 4.8 and 4.9 and the subsequent decisions should be separate.
SIERRA LEONE called for LDC climate change focal points to be strengthened.
ARGENTINA, with the PHILIPPINES, stressed the Adaptation Fund is contributing to the operationalization of the Paris Agreement and supported a procedural decision on this issue.
  BASIC (Brazil, South Africa, India, and China) countries convened in Durban, South Africa, from 19-20 May 2018.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called for the continuation of the forum on response measures and for further discussions of enhanced action on response measures.
AOSIS proposed an adaptation framework, containing mechanisms to: ensure timely flows of new and additional resources to address immediate and long-term adaptation needs; enhance national capacity to incorporate adaptation concerns into national planning; build resilience to the anticipated effects of climate change; and adapt to unavoidable climate impacts.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed support to enhance NAPs and technology transfer implementation.
The EU cautioned against duplication and said some of these items could be addressed in the Subsidiary Bodies.
DRC, for the COALITION OF RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), stressed the importance of financial contributions from both parties and non-parties.
On Thursday, the US questioned the medium confidence level cited in the context of projected decreases in global annual catch for marine fisheries, noting the paragraph’s reliance on a single study.
On translating the TEP into effective actions on the ground, the US, with the EU and Australia, said the TEP should evolve, and be regularly reviewed and improved.
SENEGAL underscored the challenge of monitoring compliance.
The EU stressed that while progress was uneven, many key issues did not require resolution in Bangkok.
Maldives, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), highlighted the need for Annex I emission reductions in the range of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and BANGLADESH called for deep cuts.
AUSTRALIA and the US said the defending party should be able to rebut evidence against it.
JAPAN, CANADA and the EU preferred \t\tin-sessional workshops.
The G-77/CHINA preferred text on immediate implementation of adaptation activities where sufficient information is available.
JAPAN said it contributes 20% of GEF funding and called for extensive evaluation.
The US, with Japan, said natural effects cannot be factored out in a satisfactory manner.
MEXICO expressed concern on the degree of subjectivity of conditions in developed country pledges and called for analyzing ways to remove them.
The G-77/CHINA expressed frustration with this outcome.
On whether representation within the Multilateral Consultative Committee (MCC) should be equally divided between Annex I and non-Annex II Parties or based on equitable regional distribution, delegates had agreed to emphasize that "some countries were of the view that," rather than "one country suggested that," the division be 50%-50% and that the "G77/CHINA and some other countries" held the other view.
SAUDI ARABIA called for clarity on what is meant by financing that is "additional" to "current" ODA.
The EU suggested building on existing review mechanisms in the Convention and expressed interest in exploring the “schedules” approach.
NIGERIA said Annex I countries were unsympathetic to its concerns about the effects of response measures on its economy.
Bolivia, on behalf of ALBA, lamented efforts to “eliminate the Kyoto Protocol,” underlined the urgency of the AWG-KP’s work and said this must be concluded at COP/MOP 6 in Cancun.
The EU suggested inviting the GEF and UNDP to report on the CDI at SB-13 and requesting other organizations to report on their capacity building activities.
The US outlined three options: the COP recommends to the COP/MOP that the attached decision be adopted; the COP recommends to the COP/MOP that the attached decision be included in the decision on the second commitment period; or the COP adopts a legal instrument that enters into force at the same time as the Protocol.
Chile, for AILAC, proposed that parties provide information on mitigation for 2020-2025 and an indicative contribution for 2030, including information on ambition, equity and fairness.
EGYPT noted that attribution of proposals in the consolidated text was more important than in the original text.
KAZAKHSTAN pledged a 15% reduction by 2020 and requested that the base year for her country be updated from 1992 to 1990.
JAPAN proposed establishing an advisory body under the COP to analyze emission reduction potentials of specific technologies.
 POLAND, supported by UZBEKISTAN, said that subgroups were useful and suggested that a deadline for nominating experts be presented at the AGBM 2.
Text proposed by the US acknowledging completion of the BAPA requirements on P&amp;Ms was accepted.
On paragraphs 7 and 8, BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY, the UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, and the US opposed inviting submissions or technical papers.
He said the Poznań Programme has a funding level of US$35 million from GEF-4 and US$15 million from the Special Climate Change Fund.
Regarding support to LDCs and SIDS, Collymore outlined the importance of support for national planning for adaptation, streamlining and scaling up, and finance and technical support.
The EU underscored the importance of collaboration between the SBSTA, SBI, and APA presiding officers for understanding progress.
TUVALU urged a more proactive role than information gathering on emissions from aviation and maritime transportation and requested the Chair to initiate a process for mitigating emissions from this sector.
The G-77/CHINA, BANGLADESH, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CHINA underscored the role of governments and the public sector in enhancing mitigation.
The EU requested that information on emissions and accounting for Kyoto units be directly accessible on the Secretariat website.
The EU noted that funding \t\t\tfor adaptation should be considered under the Protocol Article 9 \t\t\treview.
ANTIGUA and BARBUDA said the issue of conference financing from the UNGA remained open.
On the frequency of the TEMs, AOSIS and the EU said there is no need to have TEMs at all UNFCCC meetings, with AOSIS noting that quality, not quantity, is key.
INDIA, with CHINA, said further guidance on NDCs should be in the context of Paris Agreement Article 3 (NDCs, including progression and support), and called for technical work on how equity and CBDR inform NDC preparation processes.
 \t\tFinland, for the EU, highlighted the \t\tdangers of delaying action, stressing that it is not seeking to impose \t\tbinding targets on developing countries but to explore a range of \t\toptions.
JAPAN, with the US, AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, said that the provisions on finance should be dealt with by the finance contact group.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, supported doing this at COP-8, underscoring the relevant COP-5 decision that had scheduled this for COP-7, and stressed that it was not acceptable to postpone this for longer than one year.
He proposed the group be composed of two experts from international organizations and each regional group, as well as one each from LDCs and SIDS.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for flexibility in implementation for countries with economies in transition, which need to stabilize sustainable economic development.
AUSTRALIA, supported by BRAZIL and the UK, said the appeal procedure should be part of the compliance system and that Article 19 only applied to bilateral disputes.
The US, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and the EU supported 1 January 2007 as this deadline, while SAMOA preferred the year 2005 so as to allow a pre-first commitment period review and determination of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms.
JAPAN said that the results of reviews had been fruitful, and requested a synthesis report.
UGANDA, IRAN and MALAYSIA urged further efforts with regard to transfer of technology, financial resources and capacity-building.
The G-77/CHINA proposed addressing financing and implementation as separate sections.
The EU highlighted engagement with local communities as a way to reduce risks and stated that finance should come from a variety of sources.
SWITZERLAND opposed singling out loss and damage in the new agreement.
BRAZIL supported assessed contributions and auctioning of Assigned Amount Units.
The US stated that the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) would each play an important and complementary role, with the green fund focusing on large-scale investments.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the importance of negotiating “the full package” and several countries, including the EU, JAPAN and CUBA, called for ensuring coherence.
In the ensuing discussion, the G-77/CHINA questioned the value of the CDI as a separate initiative, noting that much of what had been raised through this process had been previously elaborated in COP decisions.
IRAN and the US called for the establishment of an information center/clearinghouse for technology transfer.
The EU and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported grouping the "crunch issues" into clusters, and undertook to identify spokespersons for the individual issues by Tuesday morning.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported forwarding the text to the COP, noting that it can be used as a basis for further discussion and expressed confidence that the remaining issues can be resolved in the COP.
CHINA proposed inserting language on the focus on Annex I further commitments in both conclusions.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), expressed willingness to work in a focused manner towards the adoption of a legally-binding instrument in 2015.
Responding to a question on usefulness of global information at the local level and use of local datasets in informing the process, Ronneberg discussed indirect and unexpected impacts of climate change on SIDS.
MEXICO called for an iterative dialogue between the IMO, ICAO and UNFCCC.
Regarding countries that do not fall in the poorest or richest categories, the US said they have “modest capability” and should take on “modest responsibility,” and that it would be a “modest expense” to enable them to consistently and frequently provide reporting.
Malaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, said developed countries should provide financial support in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
On eligibility criteria for members of the appeals body, BOLIVIA highlighted that they should have expertise on environmental and socio-economic issues.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for engagement of indigenous peoples and academic institutions.
SWITZER Increasing scientific evidence about the possibility of global climate change in the 1980s led to a growing awareness that human activities have been contributing to substantial increases in the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases.
The EU welcomed ICAO’s efforts to accelerate work towards a global market-based mechanism and encouraged parties to support the IMO’s efforts to assess options for such a mechanism.
The LMDCs and SOUTH AFRICA cautioned against placing additional burden on developing countries.
The US, Belgium and Saudi Arabia suggested developing a recommendation on what to do if there is a perceived conflict of interest.
 POLAND: Stanislaw Zelichowski, Minister of Environmental Protection, said reduced emission levels by economies in transition helped to offset slight increases by OECD country Parties.
THAILAND said including sinks in the CDM should not be permitted until scientific uncertainties have been resolved.
On ambition, Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested a process to increase ambition, technical workshops, and further consideration at COP 18.
NEW ZEALAND underscored new \t\tknowledge since the Protocol was drafted.
NORWAY highlighted links between this issue and his auctioning proposal under the AWG-LCA, while TUVALU opposed linking this issue to the AWG-LCA.
AUSTRALIA said ERTs had a technical assessment function and, accordingly, an essential referral function.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that technology transfer should be a standing item on the SBI agenda.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, proposed a TEM on reviewing existing policy databases and, supported by AUSTRALIA, said TEMs should focus on implementation.
CHINA highlighted expedited access to funds.
The EU underscored that the operation of this mechanism must be transparent and respect legal arrangements of other processes.
This informal round table on quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs) was chaired by Dan Reifsnyder (US).
 : Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: further discussion on agriculture and adaptation; and identification of potential areas of future work under the the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation (NWP).
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed regret that expectations for Poznań had not been met, calling for a radical change in approach.
The EU proposed considering the “lifecycle of NAMAs” and discussing how to formulate effective NAMAs, take technology and financing needs into account, match action with support and evaluate the results.
AUSTRALIA announced her country e2 80 99s pledge of AUS$200 million to the GCF over four years.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed the new text as balanced and party-owned, but lamented that parties could not complete the reading of much of the decision text.
BRAZIL said agreement on criteria for carbon budgeting was difficult to foresee.
Regarding the draft COP/MOP decision on technical guidance on methodologies for adjustments under Article 5.2 (adjustments), the EU noted that lead reviewers should not only recommend how data sources should be updated, but also how they should be developed.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for strengthening \t\tsystematic observation and early warning systems in Africa and moving \t\tthe Buenos Aires Plan on Adaptation to SBI for implementation.
BRAZIL, with INDIA and CHINA, underscored that the level of ambition should be determined by developed countries’ historical responsibility.
Looking even further afield, many attended an evening presentation by the “We Are Still In” group, which pledged a “wave of action” by signatories representing more than half the US population, reinforcing the view held by many that non-party stakeholders will play a key role in upholding the Paris Agreement.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported a long-term goal, noting that action on adaptation is dependent on mitigation and the global temperature limit.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for an AWG-LCA outcome in Doha to be in line with the Bali Action Plan and decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged Annex I parties to close the gap between the current emission reduction pledges and what is required by science.
GERMANY said it had agreed on 14 November to offer joint accommodation for the Secretariats of the UNFCCC and Convention to Combat Desertification in the former parliamentarians 92 office building.
\t\tThe EU proposed maximizing synergies, promoting linkages to mitigation \t\tand, with CANADA, a review of the programme following publication of the \t\tIPCC Fourth Assessment Report.
On finance, he questioned the source of funding for the US$100 billion by 2020, and said he could not accept the World Bank as trustee.
He asked delegates to consider both the G-77 and China approach paper, contained in A/AC.237/Misc.40, and the submission made by the UK, contained in document FCCC/SB/1995/Misc.1.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BURKINA FASO urged the structure \t\tof the HLS to allow for wide participation.
NEW ZEALAND noted the need to consider the functions of the finance board as well as the strengthening of existing bodies.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NORWAY, proposed addressing all elements this year.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said a protocol should have reachable rather than utopian benchmarks that Parties at variable levels of development can attain with differentiated responsibility.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, proposed that paragraphs on sources and principles of funding be discussed in the contact group on finance.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the capacity needs of developing countries around undertaking assessments, and, with SINGAPORE, called for developing clear recommendations for specific actions.
Co-Chair Groves said that on the issue of funding for Stage II adaptation activities, the G-77/CHINA wanted to have the COP-4 decision (2/CP.4) refined so that Stage II adaptation activities could be based on national communications or in-depth studies on vulnerability.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA underscored the need to “capture what the atmosphere sees” and opposed the availability of substitutes as a criterion for determining which gases to include.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION identified three specific indicators: population-weighted heating degree days; population-weighted average distance between ten major cities; and the export-import balance of greenhouse gas intensive products.
The US and CANADA stated their support of Ukraine’s sovereignty.
The EU stressed low-cost mitigation \t\t\topportunities in the IPCC WGIII findings, and SWITZERLAND emphasized \t\t\tWGIII’s message that current policies are not sufficient.
On scale of resources, EGYPT proposed that developed countries’ financial contributions be based on a percentage of Gross Domestic Product.
The EU said the priority is first to increase understanding of adverse effects through exchange of information, before substantive debate on addressing them.
SINGAPORE expressed concern over e2 80 9cevolving responsibilities e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cparties in a position to do so, e2 80 9d and cautioned against rewriting the Convention.
The EU acknowledged that there is “room for improvement” on HCFC-23 credits and said they would be banned in the EU in the near future.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the need to: address issues around “operability” and eligibility for access to flexibility mechanisms in order to deliver a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period; recognize substantial outcomes achieved in Cancun and Durban; focus on areas of convergence to finalize any remaining work in the AWG-LCA; and capture ADP discussions in a text to send a signal that the ADP is on track.
NEW ZEALAND stressed that the proposal aims to clarify the text.
Several Annex I countries \t\tand the European Community pledged a total of US$8,188,050 for funding \t\tthe CDM, with the largest donations coming from Canada (US$1.5 million), \t\tGermany (US$1 million), Japan (US$1 million), Italy (US$1 million), the \t\tUK (US$740,000) and Spain (US$500,000).
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), called for including a mechanism on loss and damage in the 2015 agreement, and said ADP 2-6 should clarify that the COP 21 outcome will be a legally-binding protocol under the Convention and keep warming below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The EU called for spin-offs at this session.
The AFRICAN GROUP highlighted a desire to avoid creating bureaucratic institutions, with MALAWI calling for arrangements that make adaptation funds more accessible.
On cooperation, the EU and INDIA emphasized carbon markets.
The G-77/CHINA also stressed the need for new, additional, adequate and predictable finance, and for the development and transfer of technology, as well as capacity building.
The AFRICAN GROUP underscored regional centers.
With NORWAY, she said the first and second alternatives were the most attractive ones.
BURKINA FASO, THAILAND, and AZERBAIJAN called for translations of guidelines.
A contact group chaired by Jim Penman (UK) and Mark Mwandosya (Tanzania) will meet to consider this issue.
CANADA said the provisional agenda correctly referred to a proposal and, supported by several Annex I Parties and UZBEKISTAN, but opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, stressed retaining the issue as worded in the provisional agenda.
Describing the report as “wide reaching,” the EU observed that it was important to recognize that no single source can address the aims of climate finance.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, proposed language urging the COP to take a decision on the issue at this session, and the EU objected.
In the final AWG-KP plenary, parties could not agree on the length of the commitment period, with the EU requesting that the period should be until 2020 to maintain coherence with the Convention track, and the Chair decided to forward the text to the CMP for adoption, with brackets around the length of the commitment period.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS urged countries to ensure that the IMO strategy is consistent with staying below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The text was accepted as amended by CANADA.
On demonstration projects, the G-77/CHINA said these were not critical in identifying needs and stressed that sufficient information had already been submitted.
  WIM Executive Committee Co-Chair Shereen D’Souza, US, presented the report (FCCC/SB/2016/3) and stressed that the WIM has yet to complete its two year work programme, despite considerable recent work, including on non-economic losses.
CHINA opposed treating e2 80 9capplicability to all e2 80 9d in a one-size-fits-all non-differentiated manner.
INDIA called for consideration of small projects.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA, and CHINA (BASIC), expressed concern that its call for equal treatment of pre-2020 ambition has gone unheeded, and highlighted the Talanoa Dialogue and the Doha Amendment’s ratification as opportunities to build trust.
BRAZIL highlighted the need to wrap up everything under the AWG-LCA’s mandate and stressed that solving all these issues is a precondition for meaningful work under the ADP.
Opposing Canada 92s SBSTA-16 proposal to change the baseline from 1989 to 1999, the EU stressed its support for the definitions set out in the Marrakesh Accords.
Australia, Japan, \t\tIndia, the EU, New Zealand and others supported the IPCC request, while \t\tSaudi Arabia and China suggested that the IPCC Report could be taken up \t\tat COP 14.
SOUTH AFRICA noted the difference between short-term and long-term adaptation needs, and stressed the importance of both integrated and stand-alone adaptation activities.
 In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempt developing countries from emission reduction targets.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP and the LMDCs, supported starting work on the draft decision.
Identifying the need to distinguish between NAMAs and offsets, AOSIS emphasized that new market mechanisms only make sense in the context of legally-binding international commitments.
The EU called for stronger binding language on the obligation to implement and on unconditional commitments.
The G-77/CHINA stressed finance as one of the most important pillars of the Bali Action Plan.
OMAN \t\tand QATAR underscored the importance of implementing UNFCCC Article 4.8 \t\t(adverse effects) with respect to response measures.
AUSTRALIA provided an overview of the workshop on the participation of observers held earlier in the week.
The EU expressed flexibility on this, suggesting referring to the purpose of the agreement.
The EU noted that many provisions common to environmental agreements are not included here, such as a requirement for consensus for amendments to financial rules, and a provision for reallocating the balance of assets should a fund be dissolved.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, with the EU, \t\t\tstressed that the decision on small-scale afforestation and \t\t\treforestation projects was part of a balanced package agreed at COP \t\t\t9.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and IRAN stressed the need to focus on the full scope of NDCs as defined in Paris Agreement Article 3 (NDCs, including progression and support).
For its work and efforts “to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about manmade climate change, and to lay the foundations needed to counteract such change,” the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, jointly with former US Vice President Al Gore, in December 2007.
PAKISTAN said the consultations have been “frank and deep” and stressed the need for a solution.
However, the US, European Union (EU) and others envisaged a more hands-off approach, suggesting that the adaptation committee provide technical or scientific advice on good practice, but not necessarily provide detailed project assessments or be involved in project approval.
On Monday morning, SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, said that there could be no progress on P&amp;Ms until there was progress on other issues.
CANADA questioned the need for lead reviewers to be examined on training elements other than the modalities for accounting assigned amounts and review of national registries.
CHINA expressed disappointment with the workshop presentation by Japan, noting Japan’s comment that the mandate of the AWG-KP is politically and technically unattainable and assumes no future commitment periods under the Kyoto Protocol.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AOSIS and AILAC, stressed that one day of the transparency roundtable should be dedicated to transparency of support.
The US and EU underlined that the question is how, not whether, to include it.
AUSTRALIA said he wishes to avoid the gap and regretted other countries’ assumptions to the contrary.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, with the EU and CHILE, preferred e2 80 9cpledges e2 80 9d to e2 80 9ccontributions.
SAUDI ARABIA and the US identified the need for further work.
With NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, he suggested refining the synthesis into a draft negotiating text.
The US, EU and LDCs also suggested that the text on thematic areas could be further elaborated.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for consideration of how the SBSTA can advance decisions on information, as well as scientific and technological matters.
On the frequency of deliberations, the EU noted that meetings should be held at least once a year.
\t\tSwitzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported by the \t\tINTERNATIONAL EMISSIONS TRADING ASSOCIATION (IETA), proposed an \t\tassessment of the CDM by COP/MOP 4.
ARGENTINA, with EGYPT, expressed concern over the inclusion of land sector emissions, noting that agriculture is not the main contributor to climate change.
The EU and Japan welcomed the GEF’s report, while the G-77/China said the report deviates from the Bali mandate.
AUSTRALIA suggested replacing reference to countries in annexes with language on “all parties in a position to do so,” and encouraged the mobilization of finance from a variety of sources.
MEXICO preferred e2 80 9ccommitments e2 80 9d according to CBDRRC and supported schedules as an anchoring mechanism for contributions.
The US emphasized that Annex I countries put forward their targets before and after Copenhagen.
The US highlighted work of programmes such as the IGBP-START (Systems for Analysis Research and Training) and the coordinating role the Secretariat can play in North-South exchange of experience.
He said the issue should be discussed only in one negotiation group, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted that it is considered by the SBI.
BRAZIL noted that it should not be presumed that timing will affect quality.
AOSIS noted the need to modify IPCC guidelines for small island developing states because they are not always applicable to their special circumstances.
SINGAPORE stressed that the method and mode of ministerial engagement must be inclusive and transparent.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said the CDM should be based on an incremental approach, that JI should follow a two-track approach, and that liability under emissions trading should be linked to the nature and scope of the enforcement branch of the compliance regime.
SAUDI ARABIA also drew attention to the issue of bunker fuels, saying this had not been captured as a supplementary decision to the core decision.
Regarding the use of ODA and GEF funds, the EU said CDM funding should not compete with these sources but that we would be open to discussion of all options as long as conditions for validation and certification are met.
AUSTRALIA, the US, JAPAN, SWITZERLAND, and NEW ZEALAND expressed concern with this objection.
 \t\t\tSPAIN and URUGUAY reflected on \t\t\tan Ibero-American initiative on climate change.
CANADA \t\tunderlined the benefits of early action on technology transfer, enabling \t\tenvironments and appropriate capacity building.
IRAN requested a reference to technology transfer.
AOSIS said this would allow for adjustment of targets based on recent science and would avoid locking in “an inadequate level of ambition” for a longer period.
The G-77/China suggested compiling a paper on different options for addressing modalities for accounting, reporting and review aspects, while the EU, Canada and Japan preferred integrating these issues into the other options papers.
The EU noted a positive outcome on the budget.
On review of information and possible decisions under Article 4.2 (f) (amendments to the annexes), AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU requested information on Turkey\'s approach to responsibilities.
She highlighted the core element of mobilizing US$120 billion from public and private sources, including carbon markets, particularly for vulnerable and LDCs.
Canada, supported by Trinidad and Tobago and the UK, expressed openness to any uses of these resources that would help develop scientific capacity, and, with China and WGI Vice-Chair Aldrian, suggested developing partnerships with academic institutions or academies of science to improve the distribution of funds or help with administration.
Delegates discussed technical amendments, including a suggestion by the EU on a new paragraph on characteristics of national inventories making reference to monitoring of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 (joint implementation) and 17 (emissions trading).
The EU opposed Saudi Arabia 92s request to include discussions on the implementation of Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms) on the agenda.
The EU suggested including members from various fields, such as legal, economic, social, technical, environmental, scientific and technological.
BOLIVIA requested also reflecting the contribution of the flexibility mechanisms to meeting commitments.
Secretary Christ clarified that the text was drafted with the WMO legal consul, and expressed hope that in negotiating future agreements with the EU the various financial requirements will be reconciled.
The AFRICA GROUP noted concerns with availability of translated documents, the convening of too many meetings and rigid positions taken by developed countries.
The US, with the EU, said the impression of general agreement was misleading.
AUSTRALIA supported including “materiality” in the CDM.
Cuba, WMO, Sweden, China, the UK, Denmark and Timor Leste outlined tools and methodologies that were useful for implementing DRR and climate change policies.
  On emissions from fuel used for international aviation and maritime transport (bunker fuels), CUBA, ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA, said work to address sectoral emissions under the IMO and ICAO should be guided by the principles of the UNFCCC.
SWITZERLAND described plans to finance pilot AIJ projects with Annex II partners.
PAKISTAN, MEXICO, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CHINA underlined historical responsibility and noted the differing capacities among countries to address climate change.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, said some concepts had been lost.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), urged countries not to betray “the expectations of the anxious global population,” and supported bottom-up and inclusive procedures and the continuation of a two-track process.
Since the AOSIS countries submitted a draft protocol for consideration in September 1994, the discussions on the need for a protocol and the adequacy and implementation of existing commitments have been at center stage.
ARGENTINA supported a new fund and facility, governed by a board and assisted by thematic bodies.
Underscoring the importance and inclusion of human rights and gender, Colombia, for AILAC, lauded the Agreement for not only being applicable to all but also for belonging to all.
The EU and US said the GEF performs effectively and responsively.
AOSIS expressed concern with the aggregate level of ambition, noting that when LULUCF is included, current pledges would imply emission reductions of as little as 1-7%.
Panel presentations: BOLIVIA underscored the need for progressing sustainable development within the FCCC framework.
On appeal, JAPAN said the Party concerned could ask the COP/MOP to take a decision on the need to re-examine the outcome of the compliance body.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for discussions on early entry into force, with Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasizing the need for an expedited entry into force.
The PHILIPPINES requested resuming discussions on the issue after the informal workshop on national communications.
e2 80 9d JAMAICA stated that the proposed actions should be guided by gender equality, not merely gender balance.
The US agreed with developing countries that there has been ineffective action on adaptation, but asserted that this is not because a committee is lacking, but rather because of the absence of NAPAs, accurate knowledge and technology funding.
The EU highlighted that market mechanisms would enhance mitigation efforts.
 The EU, supported by the US, suggested the Secretariat focus on voluntary private sector technology transfer and on enabling conditions for its transfer.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed adding a placeholder to outcomes from Adaptation Fund consultations underway “under the APA.” Muyungi said the Co-Chairs did not have a mandate to cross-reference text to a stand-alone agenda item.
INDIA stressed the importance of defining the scope of Review and determining its modalities as one “can’t address the how without addressing the what.” He called for more clarity on the mandate of the informal group on legal form and said the GCF should be operationalized during this meeting.
On Tuesday, 17 May in plenary, the EU encouraged parties to “take the spirit of Paris to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organization (IMO).”
GHANA suggested that not \t\tall EGTT meetings be held in conjunction with sessions of the SBSTA or \t\tCOP.
AOSIS, the \t\tEU, the G-77/China, and Antigua and Barbuda disagreed with the US, \t\tstating that, as consideration of this item had not been concluded, the \t\trules of procedure dictated that it be taken up at the next SBSTA \t\tsession.
After a presentation from a representative of RAMSAR, the EU suggested that SBSTA consider a draft decision on cooperation with other conventions and, with SWITZERLAND, TUVALU, and NORWAY, proposed inviting the Secretariat to explore methodological issues relating to emissions from international transport, and report results to SB-17.
AUSTRALIA disagreed, stressing the importance of not being prescriptive, but allowing for consideration of national circumstances.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, called for the establishment of a decision-making framework at COP-5.
Highlighting cities as centers of opportunity, SOUTH AFRICA called for a focus on urban areas.
The US drew attention to the Major Economies Forum (MEF).
CHINA said the budget concept has been introduced along with a string of extraneous issues.
The G-77/CHINA expressed a willingness to work on the basis of the non-paper, while noting insufficient time to consider it in detail.
CHINA said adaptation should be given more importance than mitigation.
On what should be addressed at this meeting, but possibly completed at IPCC-33, the US suggested: the development of a conflict of interest policy for elected positions and staff and a code of conduct to apply to all; guidance on strengthening the review process; encouraging review editors to ensure all substantive comments are afforded appropriate consideration and that controversies are adequately reflected; treatment of grey literature; and the communications strategy.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said engagement with non-state actors should be enhanced, focused and interactive.
SAUDI ARABIA called for ICAO and IMO to consider the principles and provisions of the UNFCCC.
France, for the EU, explained its proposed framework for adaptation, which promotes financial resources and investment flows and builds partnerships between developed and developing countries.
The EU supported mandatory forest management accounting.
The US said the system should enable verification of efforts, which could include tiers and opt-out provisions based on parties’ circumstances.
Grenada, for AOSIS, proposed inserting a preamble recognizing that developed countries shall achieve their QELROs primarily through domestic efforts.
The EU emphasized that the second commitment period is only one part of the “Durban package,” and proposed a review in 2015 of the level of ambition of parties’ commitments, in line with the AWG-LCA Review.
BANGLADESH highlighted the high cost of operationalizing CDM projects, including the registration fee and validation by a Designated Operational Entity, calling for exemptions for LDCs.
NORWAY suggested a bottom-up approach to developing regional technology centers with some international coordination.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the process was moving ahead too quickly and there was no need to prepare a document to be considered at the next COP.
Angola, for the LDCs, noted the Agreement is applicable to all and encourages movement toward a common global temperature goal of 1.5 c2 b0C through, inter alia, periodic reviews, global stocktake, and the recognition of specific needs.
The EIG also introduced a textual proposal for a work programme to clarify assumptions and conditions, particularly in relation to issues such as market mechanisms and LULUCF.
The EU suggested enabling parties to take action consistent with their NDCs.
\t\t\tThe EU and New Zealand indicated that there was no precedent on \t\t\tconsideration of IPCC assessment reports by COP/MOPs, and with \t\t\tothers, supported the inclusion of AR4 on COP and COP/MOP agendas.
AUSTRALIA called for a focus on the poorest and most vulnerable parties.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for regional adaptation platforms, while New Zealand suggested strengthening existing regional initiatives.
The decision for capacity building in developing countries (FCCC/CP/1999/L.19), inter alia: recognizes the constraints in developing countries to implementing the Convention and, in particular, the special capacity-building needs of the least developed countries (LDCs) and SIDS; emphasizes that capacity building is a continuous process; and states that capacity building for developing countries must be country-driven, reflecting national initiatives and priorities.
JAPAN underscored that use of 1990 as the base year makes comparing levels of effort more difficult and that using absolute emission levels was preferable.
The EU explained its exploration of sustainability criteria for biofuels to address these concerns.
SAUDI ARABIA said training of review experts should include developing country experts.
NEW ZEALAND underlined the vulnerability of SIDS and noted threats to island cultures.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, and Nicaragua, opposed adoption of the agenda without the item on national adaptation plans for LDCs, as provided for in Decision 1/CP.16.
SWITZERLAND, the US, and the EU called for a structure similar to that of the fifth review COP decision, with the US and the EU supporting consideration of highlighting some SCF recommendations.
BRAZIL, INDIA, VENEZUELA and CHINA emphasized that IAR and ICA are two separate processes.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted IPCC AR5, stressing the need for high mitigation ambition.
CHINA compared the \t\tConvention with a car that is not running smoothly.
The EU explained differentiation of the type and shape of commitment should be based on capacity.
With SWITZERLAND, she asked why the section on reporting had been deleted.
On the way forward, many countries, including Tuvalu, for the LDCs, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, NORWAY and the EU, proposed submissions for May 2017.
The G-77/CHINA suggested adding a paragraph in which SBSTA would bring to the attention of ICAO and IMO the fact that non-Annex I Parties do not have greenhouse gas reduction targets.
The EU, with SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA, said information contained in the TAR justified further action on climate change, and suggested consideration of the scientific and technical issues Parties would like the IPCC to address in the future.
The EU called for a work programme to support concrete activities.
SAUDI ARABIA also requested that its objection to the rules of procedure be noted.
The EU, supported by AOSIS, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed the inclusion of HWP in the first commitment period.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the distinction between developed and developing countries and the close link between MRV of actions and MRV of support.
JAPAN highlighted the use of existing funds, and the EU underscored the need to build on existing institutions.
TUVALU requested referring to the legal matters group the question of whether the Protocol would be subsumed under a new agreement in Copenhagen and if so whether the Protocol’s mechanisms would disappear or how they could be transferred under the new legal regime.
MALAYSIA sought clarification on what would happen to the Geneva text once parties start proposing changes.
The EU expressed reservations about text relating to EITs, noting the term was coined in the early 1990s and now needed clarification.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported submissions on the GST outlining areas of convergence and divergence.
JAPAN and SWITZERLAND suggested postponing further guidance to the GEF until the comprehensive review is completed.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed a new developing country action mechanism, similar to the CDM, whereby resource commitments by developed countries and action pledges by developing countries are pooled together.
NIGERIA called for including the Sustainable Development Goals alongside the reference to sustainable development.
The US, with New Zealand, suggested the possibility for NGOs to submit information.
EGYPT preferred a permanent forum as the e2 80 9cleast common denominator.
While agreeing that it is not necessary to launch negotiations on the Dialogue’s design, the EU and AUSTRALIA stressed that parties must leave COP 23 with clarity on its conduct.
MAURITIUS stressed the urgency of acting on Article 4.9.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said the amalgamation document does not fully reflect the status of negotiations in the informal groups, and should not be used as the basis for negotiation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, underlined that a technical mode is a fundamental underpinning to the text-based discussions in 2018.
Underscoring the current flood disaster in their country, the PHILIPPINES stressed that the current level of ambition of Annex I parties’ pledges does not reflect the “stark reality” his country is facing at home and supported starting with a top-down approach.
CANADA noted that the primary legal obligations for each country are NDC submission and reporting.
SAUDI ARABIA said work should focus on determining the terms of reference of the workshop.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested that the findings of the 2013-2015 review underscored that the “guardrail” concept, which implies a warming limit that guarantees full protection from dangerous anthropogenic interference, is inadequate, calling for pushing the “defence line” as low as possible.
NORWAY, with SWITZERLAND, supported TEMs e2 80 99 focus on mitigation, including fossil fuel subsidy reform, and, with COLOMBIA, called for recognizing the work of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate.
EGYPT welcomed the agenda proposal by the Philippines as “balanced and inclusive,” and underscored equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
BRAZIL urged that JI credit should apply only if both countries had emissions targets.
AOSIS expressed disappointment that none of the views \t\texpressed in his group ef bf bds submission were reflected in the new draft \t\ttext.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted financial and technical constraints and capacity building for adaptation.
The US said their proposal for institutional arrangements envisaged a simple trust fund structure with balanced governance, which would address the need to expedite access to funds as well as fiduciary responsibility.
ZAMBIA called for accreditation of additional designated operational entities in Africa, and proposed continued reform of the CDM to address transparency and accountability, and simplify methodologies.
On paragraph I(bis) on SBSTA\'s cooperation with competent international bodies, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that the sentence did not specify which international organizations were competent.
JAPAN indicated that technology transfer to emerging \t\t\teconomies such as China is occurring, and reported on several \t\t\tsuccess stories.
CHINA suggested text on, inter alia, deciding to achieve the balanced and comprehensive treatment among the elements of mitigation, adaptation, MOI, and transparency of action and support in the negotiating text of the 2015 agreement.
BULGARIA, for CG-11, CYPRUS and MALTA, noted the special circumstances of these individual countries in fulfilling their commitments.
 \t\t\tCHINA, opposed by the EU and \t\t\tNORWAY, proposed deleting a bullet point indicating, inter alia, \t\t\tthat mitigation efforts during the next few decades will to a large \t\t\textent determine the long-term temperature increase and climate \t\t\tchange impacts.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS opposed, underscoring the need for pathways with a higher probability of reaching the long-term temperature goal.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted the AOSIS Summit on 21 September in New York, where the heads of state had agreed on a “bold declaration to work with urgency and purpose” and stressed that “comfort and political accommodation should not drive the major players.” On financing, he said no proposals approached the scale of resources needed for adaptation, especially for small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs, and stressed that financing should not be held hostage to progress in other areas.
On Friday, 6 November, the G-77/CHINA stressed the need for a clear section in the work programme devoted to the nature and scope of the mechanisms to facilitate comparison.
UGANDA said the question is how SBI and SBSTA can establish regional research institutions, especially in less developed areas like Africa.
During discussions in the facilitated group on Friday, 5 June, parties: considered a number of streamlining proposals presented by the LMDCs; expressed views on the placement of issues in the agreement versus decisions; discussed differentiation; and heard proposals from the EU, the LMDCs and AILAC on how to cluster the text for conceptual and structural clarity.
On the decision requesting the Secretariat to organize the first workshop and report the results to COP-7, AUSTRALIA included reference to "side events."
Norway, Switzerland, the UK, Germany, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Mexico, Belgium, Spain, Luxembourg, New Zealand and others requested that a verbal report from the side event on enhancing gender balance in the IPCC, which took place on Tuesday, 5 September, be presented under the agenda item, “Any Other Business.” Saudi Arabia opposed, noting the need to confer with his capital regarding any new agenda items.
The G-77/CHINA referred to the provision of financial resources and the transfer of technology as fundamental to implementation of the Convention by non-Annex I Parties.
The EU and US highlighted the role of market mechanisms in mobilizing the US$100 billion of annual funding agreed in Copenhagen.
Switzerland, supported by Dominica, Tanzania, the US, Saudi Arabia and the Maldives, opposed specifying the nature of the collaboration, noting it was too limiting.
PERU recommended a common baseline for joint implementation and the CDM.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), underscored adaptation as a major priority, and proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund under the Convention.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the quick operationalization of the loan scheme and encouraged the Board to continue its work to improve the efficiency of, and participation in, the CDM.
The EU called for a work programme to ensure proper implementation of Protocol Article 2.1(b) (cooperation on P&amp;Ms), and Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, highlighted the need to minimize the impact of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms on developing countries.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined that COP 23 needs to achieve progress on, inter alia: the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue; work on loss and damage; financial support for the WIM; an outcome on the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement; and clarifying eligibility criteria for the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and GCF.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined that work on pre-2020 mitigation provides additional opportunities to close the ambition gap but is not an alternative to commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and the AWG-LCA.
The EU and Japan proposed global emission reductions of 50% by 2050.
On COP-4\'s provisional agenda, the US said an item on voluntary commitments by non-Annex I Parties should be retained.
SWITZERLAND called for moving away from line-by-line negotiations to an approach where common ground can be found.
The US, Australia, Canada, Japan and New Zealand submitted a proposal for a draft decision, which, inter alia, acknowledges the potential of the CDM and JI to promote, facilitate and finance the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies to enable Parties to meet the provisions of the UNFCCC.
Tuvalu, opposed by China and the US, suggested not referring to the need to progress on all items in a “balanced” manner, noting that some issues can be dealt with quickly.
The JAPAN AGENCY FOR MARINE-EARTH SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY highlighted several of their modeling initiatives in the Caribbean and training of developing country adaptation experts.
The EU questioned the ability of such a body to address the identified gaps.
EGYPT cautioned against overstretching delegations.
The US and Switzerland requested clarification on the proposed study of the Secretariat.
CAPACITY BUILDING: On capacity building, many delegates welcomed the G77/CHINA draft decision on capacity building for developing countries, containing a list of developing country needs, as a basis for adopting a decision at COP-5.
The AFRICAN GROUP, GAMBIA and SRI LANKA called upon Parties to make available resources for institutional capacity enhancement and to expand the sphere of African countries participating in country studies.
BANGLADESH urged developed \t\tcountries to take action to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and \t\tsupport those who are vulnerable to sea-level rise.
The UK, Belgium and others were open to exploring contributions from UN entities and international and regional financial institutions.
CHINA expressed concern with discussing developing and developed countries together and at creating a “common space,” which she said was “already established by the Convention and Protocol.”
CANADA, INDIA and others highlighted that discussions should be transparent.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by CHINA and BOTSWANA, expressed concern about the late distribution of documents for the current session.
The proposal by POLAND, BULGARIA, ESTONIA, LATVIA and SLOVENIA, stated that QELROs should be legally binding.
Senegal highlighted the importance of an attractive carbon price, and Burkina Faso stated that sink projects are attractive only if the carbon price is at the level of at least US$20.
ARGENTINA recalled the address by Maria Julia Alsogary, Argentina\'s Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development, that there is a great interest, almost a consensus, on the early functioning of the CDM and emissions trading.
The US proposed also adding economic co-benefits.
Among obstacles and barriers, JAMAICA highlighted timely data collection and procuring suitable experts.
 AUSTRALIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and others, said the shared vision should be a statement of aspiration rather than legally binding.
INDONESIA and BRAZIL proposed bracketing of paragraphs on biofuels, as well as on REDD and emissions displacement.
AUSTRALIA noted the need for considerable technical work prior to COP-6.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, stated the Group’s preference for a five-year second commitment period but expressed willingness to consider an eight-year term provided it includes: a mid-term review mechanism requiring deeper targets consistent with the upcoming fifth IPCC Report; REDD+ actions under a national reference level; and national MRV systems to safeguard environmental integrity in another four-year commitment period.
NORWAY recognized the role of industry in technology transfer.
MOROCCO, as the incoming COP/CMP Presidency, assured continued engagement on the issue.
The LDC Expert Group (LEG) reported on its work (FCCC/SBI/2009/13).
Colombia, for AILAC, said the section on general/objective should include a global goal, to be operationalized in relevant sections of the agreement.
JAPAN noted that a thematic \t\tapproach would be preferable to a time-consuming sectoral approach.
The EU stressed the need to set out a work plan aimed at adopting a legally-binding agreement in 2015, applicable to all, and invited parties to make submissions and begin discussing informally what this means in practical terms.
INDIA expressed concern that NAMA trading would be used to create harmonization of emissions standards and noted that only one proposal on the table eliminates double counting by restricting trading to use against financial commitments to developing countries rather than against mitigation commitments.
CHILE noted that more than one activity should be included in a LULUCF CDM project.
The US and NORWAY highlighted integrating adaptation into national planning and policies as a critical element.
NORWAY sought continual re-evaluation of inventory data, including base years, as methodologies improve.
CHINA reiterated the G-77/China’s preference for a gas-by-gas approach.
 Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Malcolm Ridout (UK), and parties agreed to draft conclusions without changes.
AOSIS, the EU and the G-77/China sought a process that \t\twould invite submissions and address the issue at COP 11, while the US \t\tsaid there was no need for further UNFCCC work on this matter, and \t\tpreferred shorter text taking note of the Mauritius Strategy.
INDIA stressed historical responsibilities.
He outlined the UK’s “ORCHID” approach involving: initial screening; detailed climate risk assessment; selection of adaptation options; multi-criteria analysis; and cost-benefit analysis.
GHANA, SENEGAL and VENEZUELA noted that time is needed for additional suggestions for the compilation and, with SRI LANKA and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, called for a framework compilation to circulate to capitals before AGBM-6.
The G-77/CHINA said it was clear from the agreement at COP-4 that second national communications would be funded without further guidelines.
He asked whether the US could support only "management."
Nauru, for AOSIS, called on the CTCN to urgently address technologies to tackle the emission gap and commended the TEC for recognizing the importance of technology for adaptation.
The US and Belgium underlined the need for a definition of the assessment cycle or for an end date for each Bureau.
On transparency, the African Group raised concerns about brackets around “flexibility options,” stressed tracking progress on all elements of the NDCs, and, with AOSIS, called for guidance on reporting loss and damage.
AUSTRALIA announced new Prime Minister Kevin Rudd 92s \t\tintention for Australia to ratify the Kyoto Protocol expeditiously, and \t\tto reduce emissions by 60% by 2050 and introduce an emissions trading \t\tsystem.
Uganda, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more work on compliance and reporting, and encouraged parties to move to the upper range of their pledges.
TANZANIA opposed prescriptive INDCs and any additional reporting requirements for developing countries.
CHINA said estimates concerning how much finance the private sector and markets could generate had been exaggerated.
KUWAIT said policies and measures should be assessed in terms of their “economic” costs and their impact on developing countries.
The US amended the proposal so that Parties address additional Decision 8/CP.4 issues to the extent that they are not otherwise covered by their submissions.
The US said the COP rather than the Secretariat had the authority to decide on such issues.
BOLIVIA stressed the importance of enhancing the provision of MOI to developing countries.
On the organization of work, SICA proposed considering legal aspects of the 2015 agreement.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA called for keeping the 1990 base year.
The US expressed concerns about the costs of in-depth reviews of national communications and noted that reviews may not be cost-efficient.
  Continuing from Bonn, a spin-off group on numbers/text convened, co-facilitated by Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and Sandea de Wet (South Africa), met throughout the week.
The EU said the working group should identify the compliance-related elements under the Protocol, define the work programme, and identify linkages to other groups.
The EU and INDIA supported extending review time, if necessary, to ensure thoroughness.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the need to enhance pre-2020 action, particularly given the low level of ambition in parties’ INDCs.
The EU expressed a preference for joint conclusions.
The EU proposed postponing this issue to \t\tthe resumed fourth session as it related to the AWG’s work programme.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the US, suggested creating a distinction between various consequences based on the branch that would deal with it.
Algeria, also for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized that enhanced political will from Annex I parties is “the only thing that can break the deadlock” facing the second commitment period.
The Netherlands, with the US, stressed the importance of reviewing fact sheets.
THE GAMBIA called for membership of the Multilateral Consultative Committee and participation in the CDM on an equitable geographical basis.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a new and effective global climate regime and a conversation on the contribution of the Kyoto Protocol to that system.
Chair Thorgeirsson requested Terry Carrington (UK) and Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad &amp; Tobago) to co-chair a contact group on the EGTT 92s programme of work and related issues.
The EU highlighted capacity building and technology, and expressed concern that an agenda item on non-Annex I communications remained in abeyance.
He said the EU accepts the concept of carbon sinks, especially forests, but, with the Central Group Eleven (a group of eleven central and eastern European countries) and Norway, stressed a number of problems, especially of scale.
CHINA opposed establishing a group of countries in addition to Annexes I and II and the AFRICAN GROUP expressed concern over the EU’s proposal with regard to the possible “graduation” of parties.
CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS and others supported the development of a roster of experts.
  BRAZIL said transparency cannot substitute accountability, and is linked not only to mitigation, but also adaptation and MOI.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that the adaptation communications could at best contribute to a meaningful global stocktake, given that they are voluntary.
Noting that the GCF is e2 80 9cready to disburse, e2 80 9d Hela Cheikhrouhou, GCF Executive Director, identified recent milestones, such as pledges reaching US$10 billion.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, called for a new text to be proposed by the COP President.
Regarding a new sentence proposed by authors on  , the US, with Australia and Chile, supported a formulation stating that e2 80 9cmitigation of certain short-lived climate forcers can reduce the rate of warming in the short term, but will have a limited effect on long-term warming, e2 80 9d instead of an alternative formulation proposed by the authors stating that e2 80 9clong-term warming is driven mainly by CO2 emissions e2 80 9d and that e2 80 9creducing emissions of SO2 would cause warming.
Parties also addressed the implementation of the remaining elements of the LDC work programme and guidance to the GEF.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UAE, said the distinction could be made later.
Supported by TUVALU, SAINT LUCIA and others, she suggested keeping this agenda item open so that it could be revisited based on the AWG-KP Chair’s report.
Parties were careful to have the text reflect their positions on such items as the operationalization of the environmental integrity requirement, flexibilities for LDCs, and the need to avoid negative social or economic impacts.
Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, supported resuming the CMA at COP 23 in order to adopt a clear workplan for 2018 and decisions on matters ready for adoption.
The G-77/CHINA requested time to \t\tconsult on the issue internally.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for clarity on the relationship between the general/objective section and collective efforts on mitigation.
SWITZERLAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CHINA proposed that the COP/MOP should have a triggering role as well as the competence to decide on the findings of the compliance body.
Colombia indicated that carbon pools should be accounted for "within the project boundary" and the EU and AOSIS said the proposed definitions on the "project boundary" should be amended to differentiate between boundaries relevant to accounting methods and those exclusively geographical in nature.
Delegates considered draft decisions submitted by the Chair, the EU and the G-77/China.
TUVALU, AOSIS and others proposed a five-year commitment period from 2013-17.
TANZANIA noted the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and the significant adverse impacts of these phenomena, and called for financial resources and other assistance.
On Tuesday, 14 November, Co-Chair Salamat introduced to the contact group a draft proposal on the special considerations for LDCs, which he said could possibly replace the third section of the entirely bracketed draft decision(s) on adverse effects being considered in this contact group.
NEW ZEALAND echoed this call for caution on GWP use.
AOSIS, \t\tthe Africa Group, China and others also supported the adoption of the \t\tcompliance mechanism by a COP/MOP 1 decision combined with the \t\tconsideration of an amendment process.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized the importance of enhancing MOI and strengthening MRV systems in the context of workstream 2.
Many developing countries supported including specific details on board composition, suggesting 19 members: three from each UN regional grouping; two from SIDS; and two from LDCs.
 In the contact group on the framework for various approaches, AUSTRALIA noted opportunities from diverse initiatives for emission reductions at national and sub-national levels that need to be accompanied by appropriate institutional arrangements.
UGANDA said the Declaration should call for the ratification of the Protocol.
The G77/CHINA referred to its draft decision that, inter alia, requests the Secretariat to prepare a plan to facilitate capacity building for developing countries.
The EU called for work on methodologies for quantifying changes in soil carbon as a result of forest activities since 1990.
The EU, with the US and NORWAY, proposed that the Co-Chairs work on specific decision language for consideration by the group.
roster of experts, the G-77/CHINA noted the need to include experts from developing countries and sought full transparency.
Parties also agreed on compromise language on further steps, retaining the reference to a "frame" for defining these steps that was supported by the EU and SAMOA, and deleting the notion of "in-depth" information-sharing as an element of this frame, as requested by the US.
On reporting efforts to address potential consequences, the EU, with Canada, noted that reporting requirements already exist.
 \t\tThe G-77/CHINA called for the fullest possible implementation of all \t\telements of the Convention.
The EU said that verified emission reductions could be used, but with strict restrictions.
LATVIA highlighted her country e2 80 99s overachievement of its emission reduction target of 8% under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s first commitment period.
The EU noted that divergences among parties on political issues require political guidance.
JAPAN requested that the item be suspended, and SWITZERLAND noted that work could continue despite disagreement on some agenda items.
The G-77/CHINA noted that some aspects are missing, and stressed the LULUCF guiding Principles, particularly one on non-permanence.
BRAZIL and INDIA raised points of order concerning access to the Bella Center.
The AFRICAN GROUP, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed references to outside processes.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of the SBSTA’s work on REDD and the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation (NWP).
NIGERIA suggested GEF subregional offices for project monitoring.
VENEZUELA requested information on the role of the various texts on the table and sought assurance that the role of ministers will not be the same as in the “horrible Copenhagen Summit.” NICARAGUA highlighted the new text as “an informal text,” emphasizing that facilitators cannot be the interpreters of party positions.
INDIA proposed that the text should be consolidated, where appropriate, and language not fully compatible with the Convention should be eliminated.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the role of major economies and identified the need for a global agreement that is: informed by science; achievable; comprehensive; and able to reflect the full spectrum of mitigation and adaptation options.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, said attempts to link the AWG-LCA to other processes threaten to dilute the AWG-LCA, and said work in future sessions must be based on the Convention’s principles.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by many, called for enhanced experience and knowledge sharing, as well as technology development and transfer.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed extreme disappointment with the lack of progress.
 AUSTRALIA said that compromise might not be possible in the remaining 17 minutes.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized accommodating variables that capture the uniqueness of national characteristics and examining welfare, GDP, employment, investment and trade indicators.
The US said the facilitation branch should not apply mandatory outcomes.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed hope that the work under the ADP will lead to concrete and positive outcomes for all parties, in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Convention.
POLAND said there should be an equal number of Protocol Annex B and non-Annex B Parties, and AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, added that the composition would depend upon the article under review.
On other CDM issues, SAUDI ARABIA recalled that several Parties had objected to a prompt start.
On forest management, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and the US called for a simple and clear definition.
AUSTRALIA said all sources of funding are important, including public and private funds, as well as the carbon market, and called for a decentralized approach in order to facilitate access to funding.
COLOMBIA proposed establishing two contact groups on agenda item 3 (planning of work in accordance with Decision 1/CP.17) and item 4 (work plan on enhancing mitigation ambition).
 Algeria, speaking on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to complete the work of the AWG-KP in line with the Bali Action Plan, in order to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), highlighted the importance of stakeholder participation and proposed means to enhance the participation of observer organizations, such as a forum to promote dialogue among participants.
EL SALVADOR, speaking on behalf of Argentina, the Philippines, India, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Dominica, Bolivia, Cuba, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malaysia, Mali, Algeria, Iran, Kuwait, Sudan and Iraq, highlighted COP 18 as an important milestone for strengthening the multilateral climate regime under the principles of equity and CBDR.
 \t\tPakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the Convention and \t\tProtocol should remain the central multilateral platform for addressing \t\taction on climate change and cautioned against erosion or replacement \t\twith a less equitable post-2012 arrangement.
Argentina noted successful measures undertaken by the UK and Germany to reduce emissions and highlighted continuing emissions increases in the US.
During afternoon discussions, parties considered enhancing adaptation action under the adaptation framework, and establishing a process for LDCs to formulate and implement National Adaptation Plans of Action (NAPAs), which received general support from parties.
In the \t\tdiscussion, SAUDI ARABIA urged addressing adaptation to response \t\tmeasures.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, asked for assurance that all issues would receive equal and balanced treatment on the agenda.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that Annex I parties’ greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories show an increase in their GHG emissions and urged the SBI to fulfill its mandate to review the implementation of the Convention, including Annex I parties’ emission reduction efforts.
The informal group on matters relating to LDCs met in the evening to begin discussions on NAPA guidelines, the LDC Expert Group, and guidance on the LDC Fund.
The EU, G-77/China, Africa Group, Norway, Japan, South \t\tAfrica, New Zealand, Kenya, Tanzania and others supported adopting the \t\tSBSTA agenda.
Supported by BRAZIL, AUSTRALIA, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA and CANADA, the US opposed harmonized measures and advocated flexibility through national programmes geared to national circumstances.
 The G-77/CHINA urged AGBM to adhere to the Convention and the Berlin Mandate and refrain from developing new commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
BARBADOS acknowledged ongoing work to improve the GEF resource allocation framework and called for a strong fifth replenishment.
She said the proposed language on adaptation refers to all developing countries while the Convention refers only to those that are “particularly vulnerable.” CANADA and ITALY also raised questions on the Convention language used in the proposal.
He also noted progress on the preparation of the expert meeting on Multi-model evaluation, to be held in January 2010 in Boulder, Colorado, US, which will evaluate metrics and multi-models.
Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), called for regular IPCC special reports as inputs to the global stocktake.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, suggested reflecting that some parties do not see the need for this section.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the session should improve parties’ understanding of the issues mandated to the APA, and proposed technical submissions and a Co-Chairs’ reflection note after this session.
FRANCE stressed the need to give clear guidance to contact groups to ensure swift progress.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, Peru and Uruguay, expressed “great interest” in the proposal by AOSIS.
Japan, the US, Australia, New Zealand and the Russian Federation stressed operationalization of the Cancun Agreements as the basis for a robust outcome in Durban, and highlighted the importance of a framework for MRV, including ICA and IAR, and underscored the need for action by all major emitters.
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), noted the importance of the transparency framework, including for support.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, underscored the need to consider a formalized process to refine the scale of financial resources required, including a regular adjustment process.
On finance, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, requested reference to interim and long-term financing.
The LMDCs, supported by IRAN and the EU, suggested working on critical areas, such as mitigation, adaptation and MOI, and prioritizing and sequencing key elements.
AUSTRALIA supported a clear and concise roadmap, saying the detailed tools to implement it should be placed under thematic decisions.
SAUDI ARABIA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, opposed by SAMOA and JAPAN, said Article 3.14 (adverse effects) was enforceable.
  In informal consultations, co-facilitated by Andrew Rakestraw (US), parties reported back from informal informal discussions.
Belgium, for the EU, said the Cancun outcome should preserve the Kyoto Protocol architecture and confirm the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol institutions, but noted that progress under the AWG-KP alone would be insufficient.
Delegates also agreed to add a \t\tfootnote including reference to the dense phase of carbon dioxide at \t\tdepths below 800 meters, as proposed by the UK with the support of \t\tAUSTRIA and the US, and that the footnote should refer to the recovery \t\tof methane, as suggested by FRANCE.
CHINA, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA sought alternative language supporting substantial progress by COP-6.
The US, opposed by Brazil, noted the possibility of convening a “friends of the chair” group while continuing with drafting.
AUSTRALIA highlighted its proposed model post-2012 treaty outline, including a schedule of actions.
AILAC, the LDCs, NORWAY and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO suggested some modalities for a compliance mechanism to be included in the agreement, while the LMDCs suggested a work plan for a body to develop the modalities.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the political nature of CDM-related decisions, urged that decisions on baselines be undertaken by the COP/ MOP, and expressed reservations about the need for a Reference Manual.
The US emphasized IPRs were not a barrier, but a catalyst for technology transfer, and said IPR critics were those very countries who have taken advantage of the IPR regime.
The US and the EU preferred focusing on operative text and questioned the need for a section on principles.
SURINAME underlined the need to transfer sustainable development technologies, building capacity and addressing recipient country needs.
SOUTH AFRICA \t\t\trecognized simplifying existing procedures as a legitimate \t\t\tobjective.
Countries will be able to access US$15,000 for the self-assessment, and up to US$405,000 for the national communication.
The EU said it will complete the ratification of the Doha Amendment as early in 2015 as possible.
On Thursday, 5 June, during the consideration of non-Annex I financial matters, Tanzania, on behalf of the LDCs, proposed that the matters relating to LDC Fund be addressed separately from the SCCF.
In response to a question from BOLIVIA, Rutherford said Annex B countries may place restrictions on imports of energy-intensive products from non-Annex B countries.
The US \t\tsupported other speakers 92 comments on consolidating work programmes and \t\tlinkages with trade, while cautioning against in-depth discussions on \t\tthe temperature limits suggested by some.
With the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and SWITERLAND, he opposed establishment of new institutions.
CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and SWITZERLAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, preferred to consider adaptation and mitigation under one agenda item.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 acknowledges progress made by the LEG under its work programme for 2014-2015 and welcomes the launch of the regional training workshops on NAPs for LDCs for 2014-2015;
  On this item (FCCC/SBI/2012/3-5, FCCC/SBI/2012/Misc.4 and FCCC/CP/2011/7/Add.2), Tony Carret (EU) will consult informally.
TAJIKISTAN, supported by BHUTAN, stressed the need to reflect needs of mountainous, landlocked developing countries.
The US supported the Manual serving as a repository of decisions, while the EU urged that it be of a technical nature.
AOSIS called for explicit reference to support provided.
On the question of technical input, the EU supported working on the level of ambition of Annex I emission reductions “across the board” as well as on accounting rules for LULUCF and the inclusion of new greenhouse gases.
The EU said Decision 1/CP.21 (Paris outcome) contains all the necessary modalities.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA and EU, suggested withdrawing the appendix on elaborating guidelines on national systems relating to AA units and/or PAAs.
JAPAN and the EU stressed the need to balance \t\tadaptation and mitigation, while INDIA said focus should be on \t\tadaptation.
The G-77/CHINA urged removal of restrictions on technology transfer.
Chair Stoycheva decided to convene informal consultations on LDC matters.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged ensuring that intellectual property rights are not an impediment to technology transfer.
Regarding a paragraph stating that   to enhance efficiency and remove redundancies and overlaps, and that this will be laid down in memoranda of understanding (MoUs), the US emphasized the need for flexibility and suggested that such clarification of the roles “can” enhance efficiency rather than “is required to,” which was agreed.
In the final meeting of the contact group, the US stressed a package deal on all three draft decisions, and said they should remain bracketed in their entirety when being forwarded to SBI.
MAURITANIA sought clarity on the roles of the host country and the Operational Entity, and stressed the need for the host country to play the "driving role" in the process.
The EU identified a strong degree of consensus \t\ton certain building blocks, including the need for deeper absolute \t\temission reduction commitments for developed countries; measurable and \t\tincentivized action by developing countries; adaptation; technology and \t\tenhancing the carbon market.
TANZANIA called for referring to adaptation and reflecting developed countries e2 80 99 commitment to provide US$100 billion by 2020.
The G-77/CHINA and other developing countries emphasized the importance of MRV to successful mobilization of financial resources as well as providing the COP with direct control over governance.
To the US concern about the status of bullets, Co-Chair Field replied that bullets under chapter headings in the outline summarize issues to be covered by chapters and reflect the order in which authors should move forward.
TUVALU advocated for a general objectives section and setting out objectives in other sections.
The EU and SWITZERLAND said the CDM should commence immediately after COP-6 on a permanent rather than interim basis.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY expressed support for the texts.
In the afternoon, the SBI met to discuss several items, including: non-Annex I financial matters; capacity building; national communications; and a request by a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova (CACAM) regarding their status under the UNFCCC.
BOLIVIA, BURKINA FASO and CANADA suggested that the \t\texisting lack of incentives for sustainable forestry and land management \t\tamong low-income communities in developing countries be sufficient proof \t\tof additionality.
Noting the need to anticipate trends such as the growth of publications on adaptation, the UK, supported by Peru and others, proposed splitting the work of WGII on impacts and adaptation in order to have four working groups that could cope with a predicted increase in information.
The EU, Australia and Brazil expressed concern with using actual emissions as a starting point.
The EU proposed moving accounting rules concerning mitigation to the mitigation section.
The Committee agreed that AOSIS and Germany would present their proposals on Wednesday morning and that the rules of procedure would be discussed on Friday.
China, for the G-77/China, expressed “deep concern” that emissions have increased in many developed countries during the period.
A number of parties, including AOSIS, the EU, Mexico, New Zealand, Colombia, Japan and the US, stressed the need to consider loss and damage and response measures under separate agenda items.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, said this COP advanced the textual work of the Paris Agreement Work Programme and several deliverables for developing countries, including pre-2020 implementation and ambition, loss and damage, local communities and indigenous peoples platform, agriculture, gender action plan, and discussion of equity in the context of the Global Stocktake (GST).
 In the morning informal group on various approaches, including opportunities for using markets, to enhance the cost- effectiveness of, and to promote, mitigation actions, proposals were presented by: Jamaica, for AOSIS; Bolivia; Ecuador; the EU; and Switzerland.
She highlighted the remaining divergent positions on the issues of supplementarity, and said the EU had expressed interest in a possible qualitative ceiling.
The EU, JAPAN and others strongly supported the role of NGOs and remained open to tailoring different consultative mechanisms for different NGO constituencies.
The EU highlighted the cross-cutting role of technology and the Technology Framework in addressing the goals of the Paris Agreement, and the importance of both private and public sector involvement.
Regarding levies, the EU noted some divergence regarding liability for sales of non-surplus units.
JAPAN supported Canada 92s statement and expressed "alarm" at how this issue had been addressed.
The US, opposed \t\t\tby the UK, requested removing reference to 93anthropogenic 94 climate \t\t\tchange, which was replaced by Co-Chair Parry 92s proposed language on \t\t\t 93future 94 climate change.
The US requested deletion of text referring directly to trade-related issues.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said Copenhagen should produce a robust and resilient foundation to steer collective efforts, and welcomed discussions on a shared vision.
Peru, for AILAC, urged moving forward on the practical implementation and operationalization of the Cancun adaptation framework.
CHINA underscored potential problems resulting from a change in reporting methodologies.
The US suggested inserting the cross-chapter paper on polar regions with the regional chapters.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by COLOMBIA, called for TEMs focusing on experiences from implementation.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China (BASIC), urged more time to address the balance between different elements, differentiation, and the assessment process for INDCs.
 AUSTRALIA said that the scientific basis for decisions must remain objective and non-politicized.
The EU said the APA workshops and roundtables are proving useful in advancing technical understanding.
BRAZIL proposed a cap on offsetting, which he said should be well below 49%.
SAMOA, on behalf of the AOSIS, said that the Secretariat should prepare a document that addresses inputs for analysis and assessments in accordance with paragraph 5 of the BM (protocol proposals).
CHINA stressed that “poorest and least able” is not a concept included in the Convention.
Grenada, for AOSIS, \t\tcalled for agreement on a shared vision to preserve their islands and \t\tpeople as a priority, taking into consideration their low adaptive \t\tcapacity.
CANADA said future reviews should cover the effect of actions by all Parties over time and that SBSTA should provide scientific and technical information for such review.
The AFRICAN GROUP also stressed the need to bridge the gap between current Annex I Party pledges and the 40% emission reduction by 2020 required to limit the temperature increase to 2°C, according to the IPCC.
On ex ante consideration, AILAC called for a robust process.
The US recalled the IAC’s finding that a need exists for a body that could respond quickly in moments of crisis, as well as address everyday matters.
 Joint informal consultations were co-facilitated by Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso), Malcolm Ridout (UK), Richard Merzian (Australia) and Hamza Tber (Morocco).
Calling for \t\tscientific analysis, JAPAN said the AWG\'s work should be based on \t\tscience and stated that 93a political deal will not solve the problem.
New Zealand, Canada, and the Russian Federation said INDCs should address mitigation only, with Switzerland and the US arguing that including adaptation in the INDCs would delay their submission.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted that the AWG-LCA is close to fulfilling the Bali Action Plan mandate after the decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
The EU and Colombia, for AILAC, said the suggestion was useful and but should be analyzed later.
SWITZERLAND preferred prioritizing Article 3.3, while the EU stressed emissions reduction as the main emphasis when considering Article 3.4.
 CANADA and JAPAN said capacity building must be e2 80 9ccountry-driven, e2 80 9d and not e2 80 9cdemand-driven.
ITALY, for the EU, urged the US to take actions comparable to those that would have been expected from them under the Protocol.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for rebalancing progress on agenda items, and holding joint sessions on related items.
SOUTH AFRICA said the scope should include both action and support, and modalities should take into account different circumstances.
GUATEMALA urged taking bottom-up and top-down approaches to increase social and ecosystem resilience, and highlighted the need for synergies with poverty eradication.
SRI LANKA recalled that poverty eradication is the main \t\tchallenge, and called for adaptation funding to be equitably \t\tdistributed.
The draft decision on guidance to the LDC Fund (FCCC/SBI/2001/ L.12) requests the operating entity of the Fund to: meet the full cost of preparing NAPAs; adopt simplified procedures and arrange for expedited access to the Fund by LDCs; encourage the use of national and, where appropriate, regional experts; and adopt streamlined procedures for the operation of the Fund.
He suggested that the international community could assist SIDS with adaptation in the following three areas:
The AFRICAN GROUP, with AOSIS, highlighted that impacts extend beyond fossil fuel exporting countries to SIDS and LDCs.
The EU underscored the role of the CGE in more frequent reporting by non-Annex I countries, as mandated by Decision 1/CP.16 (outcome of the AWG-LCA’s work).
CANADA expressed concern about prejudging financial needs.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, \t\tsaid there was a role for the investor Party in coordinating several \t\tsmall-scale project activities.
AUSTRALIA proposed abolishing the requirement for observer interventions to be provided in advance to the Secretariat and noted the need for a platform and dialogue to be established to enable observers to input recommendations and ideas to the COP high-level segment.
The EU described the Dialogue as the “first global stocktake” and a credibility test of the Paris Agreement’s ambition cycle.
CHILE called for a “single working method” and supported giving the AWG-LCA Chair a mandate to work towards further consolidating the text so that it could be used as a basis for negotiations.
The US emphasized that JI differs from CDM, as it does not share the goal of promoting sustainable development.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for a Convention adaptation fund, linking adaptation funding to emissions, an international insurance mechanism for SIDS, and adaptation coordination mechanisms.
AOSIS countries are especially concerned with the role of reefs as carbon sinks.
AOSIS observed that the review should assess the adequacy of the long-term global goal and emission reductions and that the first review should be initiated by the COP in 2013 and concluded by 2015, with subsequent reviews every five years.
BANGLADESH and NIGERIA lamented the inadequacy of available funds.
The G-77/CHINA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and US objected to text requesting the Secretariat to develop a draft work programme on the TAR.
VENEZUELA expressed concern that parties are heading toward a “mitigation and market agreement” that will unfairly benefit developed countries.
COLOMBIA called for a flexible framework.
CHINA and many others noted an interest in a land-based approach, but not for the second commitment period.
 The EU stated that the discussion had focused on the work plan, the provisional nature of the TAPs and the composition, and asked that these issues be considered on an equal footing.
\t\t11) and proposals contained within a letter to Chair Pachauri from John \t\tMitchell, Met Office, UK, suggesting the selection of no more than two \t\tor three 93benchmark 94 emissions trajectories for future climate change \t\tstudies (IPCC-XXV/INF.
The EU and a group of Annex I Parties, including Australia, Canada, Iceland, New Zealand, Norway, the Russian Federation and the US ("Umbrella Group") distributed draft decisions and discussion documents.
China, India and Singapore, opposed by the US, suggested that India’s proposal relating to prohibiting unilateral trade measures against exports from developing countries should also be included in the preambular part of the shared vision section.
The EU proposed that all parties individually and collectively mobilize climate finance with developed country leadership.
CHINA said a shared vision does not necessarily mean concrete targets or numerical goals, but is a statement of long-terms objectives, goals and means.
Germany said the EU would build a coalition of like-minded countries willing to commit themselves to timetables and targets for increasing renewable energy use.
The US, opposed by CHINA, AOSIS and PERU, supported a decision on Article 3.3 and 3.4 as a package at COP-6, arguing that this is critical for the success of the Protocol.
SOUTH AFRICA urged: identifying new opportunities to raise ambition; closing the pre-2020 ambition gap; and securing a direct link between ambition and support.
BOLIVIA noted that it is still developing its position on matters relating to privileges and immunities.
BOLIVIA suggested establishing a “climate resilience and sustainable development mechanism.” KIRIBATI suggested recognizing the need for a special mechanism to fast-track action to assist the most vulnerable countries.
Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance of national communications.
BOLIVIA opposed market-based approaches to climate finance.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested the following benchmarks for a successful outcome in Doha: an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol effective as of 1 January 2013; ambitious QELROs by Annex I parties; limited access to flexibility mechanisms by Annex I parties that have not adopted commitments for the second commitment period; and addressing carry-over of surplus AAUs.
FINLAND said the GEF is not the only funding channel, and stressed the availability of bilateral and private sector funds.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA, INDIA and URAGUAY, noted the need to better distinguish between AIJ projects and those jointly implemented by Annex I countries.
NIGERIA emphasized access to information technology, including telecommunications.
Maldives, for AOSIS, and SOUTH AFRICA lamented that the procedures of accreditation remain too complex.
CANADA, with the US and JAPAN, emphasized that the Copenhagen workshop on P&amp;Ms fulfilled relevant BAPA requirements.
The EU said compliance “means more than just penalties” and that it encompasses facilitating better implementation of parties’ commitments.
 The US proposed that Annex II Parties separately provide information “in accordance with” or “on” each of their commitments under Articles 4.3-4.5, rather than “to fulfill” their commitments.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (UAE) said the consolidated text by the ADP Co-Chairs should: retain all options; not change positions; and serve as the basis for negotiations during the next ADP session.
The EU noted that adaptation projects are limited in scope and scale, and that adaptation measures should be integrated into national, regional and local planning.
MEXICO supported working in a “friends of the chair” format, provided the group discusses only political issues.
ARGENTINA, supported by the G-77/CHINA and others, said that adaptation projects are of global benefit and should be given the highest priority under the SCCF.
BARBADOS said data gathering should not be used as an excuse to avoid instituting an insurance system, with TUVALU cautioning against an “endless assessment process.” The GAMBIA cautioned against maladaptation due to lack of planning, and AUSTRALIA noted potential disincentives for risk reduction resulting from insurance.
The note proposes that the Executive Board comprise equal numbers from each UN regional group, plus one representative from the SIDS.
Opening the discussions on Monday, WG II Co-Chair Christopher Field (US) gave an overview of the proposed outline, noting that it builds on the structure of the AR4 and is organized into two parts: Part A on Global and sectoral aspects and Part B on Regional aspects.
CANADA called for a concise outcome that includes objectives, delineation of national and international cooperative action, and institutional and financing arrangements, as key elements.
The EU stressed the importance of science in guiding the negotiating process.
Malaysia, for the G-77/China, \t\tunderscored the importance of meeting the needs identified in the \t\ttechnological needs assessments (TNAs), and asked for a full review of \t\timplementation of COP decisions related to technology transfer since COP \t\t1.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), said the Paris Agreement and its implementation should be governed by the principles and objectives of the Convention, urging not to reframe CBDR-RC.
The PHILIPPINES, with BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and others, requested retaining reference to the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples to reflect collective rights.
ARGENTINA emphasized the need to centralize all available information in a forum.
NORWAY suggested that TEMs focus not only on adaptation, but also on health and sustainable development co-benefits.
The PHILIPPINES expressed concern that discussions still revolved around assessing needs and suggested renewing the discussions from COP-1 to establish an intergovernmental advisory panel on technology with equitable geographic representation.
During discussion, BOLIVIA highlighted the joint mitigation and adaptation approach with ex ante finance.
 The EU supported a protocol to build on FCCC commitments and objectives and give the Berlin Mandate quantified targets and timetables.
With the EU, he called for the operationalization of the Paris Committee on Capacity-building (PCCB) at COP 22.
CHINA said reduction objectives and policies and measures are integrated, with policies and measures as means to achieve targets.
An open-ended break-out group chaired by Andreas Fischlin (Switzerland) worked on the data reporting format based on proposals by the EU, Australia and the US.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, said the beginning of the PCCB’s work is a “step in the right direction” and stressed the importance of establishing a public registry for NDCs.
The UK supported holding joint expert meetings and the appointment of “bridge authors” for dealing with cross-cutting topics among WGs but, with Chair Pachauri and Stocker, he noted the logistical difficulties of scheduling back-to-back meetings.
Ghana, for the African Group, and Switzerland emphasized the need to consider the most vulnerable countries, particularly Africa, the LDCs and small island developing states (SIDS).
The US urged further discussion of long-term emission pathways and MRV.
The European Union (EU) underscored that the outcome from Katowice must be in line with the spirit and letter of the Paris Agreement, taking into account national capacities and circumstances and ensuring the highest possible ambition over time.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, said preparing new texts and focusing subsequent discussions on how to take them forward created the impression that text negotiated by parties would not form the basis of further work.
The US welcomed the list of priority questions as helpful to focus discussions on the issues listed in the Chair’s scenario note, but said some questions are missing from the list.
On the Adaptation Fund, the AFRICAN GROUP underlined that he could not accept the current text.
BRAZIL enquired about ways to \t\tdiscourage incentives for dispute claims.
The PHILIPPINES supported a learning-by-doing approach and information exchange, and asked developed countries to communicate their experiences in, inter alia: integrating adaptation into national development planning and the budgetary implications of doing so.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the need for agreement on the overall framework, including greenhouse gases and flexibility mechanisms.
On appeal, the EU, SAMOA and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA doubted the necessity of an appeal, as it would delay the process and merely afford Parties the opportunity to have their case heard twice.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said success in Durban depends on achieving balanced results based on the Convention’s principles, including common but differentiated responsibilities.
SAUDI ARABIA noted market distortions, and said tax made up 80% of the final price of oil in some OECD countries.
 \t\tReplying to ECUADOR, Smith indicated that \t\tinsurance could play a role in compensating for climate damages and \t\texplained that the insurance industry is already getting more involved \t\tin developing countries and creating new instruments.
On the CDM, the EU explained that demand for projects and emission reduction credits will continue in Europe, regardless of adoption of a second commitment period.
NEW ZEALAND supported raising the issue of flexibility as each element of the guidelines is addressed.
IRAN, supported by EGYPT, requested that the Secretariat make an attributed version of the new text available, while VENEZUELA and COLOMBIA opposed.
The US favored a target based on all GHGs, sources, and sinks, flexibility, and meaningful participation of key developing countries.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EL SALVADOR, underscored technology transfer, capacity building, and analysis of social impacts in AIJ projects and called for transparency in reporting.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted an option that would provide parties with flexibility to establish commitments either as QELROs or as absolute emission reductions.
BRAZIL cautioned against clustering accounting and market issues, suggesting accounting relates to transparency and compliance.
The G-77/CHINA and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated that a shared vision should be aspirational and inspirational, based on the principles and implementation of the Convention, and should treat all building blocks equally.
On the form of the outcome, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, preferred a COP decision rather than SBI conclusions.
The US, with Canada and the EU said the proposal addressed issues currently under consideration in other negotiating groups, such as discussions on Stage III adaptation, and cautioned against moving beyond other related negotiations.
SWITZERLAND supported using performance indicators to monitor progress of implementation.
Bulgaria said accounting for trading in projections was a problem for EIT countries, given the lack of information on the willingness of countries to engage in JI projects, and the resulting impact on emissions in EIT countries.
The US clarified that their proposed climate technology hub is designed to enhance technology transfer and the Convention’s implementation.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, called for full implementation of the CGE work programme, expressing concern over the lack of funding for regional workshops.
Chair Thorgeirsson said a contact group would be convened on the issue, co-chaired by David Warrilow (UK) and Rawleston Moore (Barbados).
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed openness to the Presiding Officers undertaking intersessional work as needed.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-KP, lamenting delay in adopting conclusions on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual emission reductions.
TANZANIA said social safeguards should reflect the right to sustainable development in forest and rural communities.
Responding to concerns expressed by INDIA and CHINA about the “imbalance” of technology compared to other elements in the draft agreement, Co-Facilitator Mpanu-Mpanu said it maybe because the ADP Co-Chairs were “overly cautious.”
Highlighting the vulnerability of LDCs, Tanzania, for the LDCs, stressed the need for entry into force of the Protocol and constructive work on matters relating to technology transfer, capacity building and LDCs.
The US and European Business Councils For Sustainable Energy supported a fast track for CDM projects, early crediting, full transferability of CERs, and a binding compliance regime.
AOSIS, with CHINA, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and AILAC, called for annual high-level engagement.
SOUTH AFRICA recognized the usefulness of market mechanisms, while emphasizing supplementarity.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stated a possible outcome should reflect the elements of the BAP.
 The Chair attempted to give the floor to an environmental NGO representative, but SAUDI ARABIA objected that this issue was between Parties.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged Annex I countries to adopt ambitious targets.
Micronesia, supported by the US, highlighted the value of initiatives outside the UNFCCC, such as those focused on HFCs, black carbon, methane and ground-level ozone.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that existing institutions had failed as a finance delivery system, objected to co-financing and said that the architecture should be concentrated in “one house.” The AFRICAN GROUP underscored that financial mechanisms must be subject to MRV.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, suggested that Bolivia raise the matter in the COP/MOP plenary.
Delegates also had before them written comments submitted by Gambia, the EU and the US (FCCC/SBI/1966/Misc.1).
The US and the EU proposed listing a menu of activities, noting that different countries have different concerns.
  The 18th Brazil, India, South Africa and China (BASIC) Ministerial Meeting took place from 7-8 August 2014, in New Delhi, India, and concluded with the adoption of a joint statement emphasizing the need to finalize the elements of a draft negotiating text for the 2015 agreement at COP 20.
The EU anticipated a Bali roadmap \t\tconsisting of agreement by all parties to engage in a comprehensive \t\tnegotiating process leading to a global post-2012 agreement by 2009, \t\twith a twin-track including Convention and Protocol elements.
BELGIUM said producing the Synthesis Report by COP-13 need not compromise quality, and opposed postponing delivery.
In the discussion, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported expanding the scope of the CDM to attract eco-friendly investment and technology.
The EU stressed that non-permanence reversals require compensation, while Tuvalu suggested that current rules may be functioning and the lack of projects may reflect unwillingness of credit purchasers to bear the risk of reversals.
Participants sought the Chair ef bf bds guidance on: how the contact group ef bf bds work would proceed; whether discussions would proceed on the basis of the EIT submission or the Chair ef bf bds paper; and how capacity needs emerging from other discussions would be included in the framework elaborated by the group.
 The Chair said that no draft decision on technology transfer was yet available and asked the Philippines, on behalf of the G-77, and France, on behalf of EU, to produce a document in time for Tuesday\'s session of the COW.
The US sought clarification on the phrase "compliance with KP criteria" in the context of eligibility criteria for the mechanisms.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that any consideration of further implementation of Convention Article 12.5 should take into account common but differentiated responsibilities and that national communications requirements should not be more onerous for non-Annex I parties than for Annex I parties.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that the summary should be adopted at an official session with interpretation and that the text should reflect the exact language submitted by delegations.
Alvaro Silva Calderon, OPEC Executive Secretary, said that the concerns of OPEC countries over adverse effects continue to be inadequately addressed.
The EU highlighted the value in the existing Kyoto Protocol architecture and instruments, describing the Protocol as the best basis for developing a common, rule-based framework for all major emitters.
BOLIVIA, CUBA and VENEZUELA supported referring to the integrity of Mother Earth and the right to development.
On other \t\tLULUCF issues, AUSTRALIA, opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and \t\tCANADA, proposed alternative text on recommending a COP and COP/MOP \t\tdraft decision to exclude degradation and devegetation in the first \t\tcommitment period.
The EU drew attention to its proposed framework for action on adaptation.
 On 4 June delegates heard a report from the Chair of the LDC Expert Group (LEG) on the 13th meeting of the LEG (FCCC/SBI/2008/6).
SWITZERLAND proposed that AWG-KP Chair Ashe come to the group to address the issue of mandate.
Highlighting its impending submissions, the G-77/CHINA urged other parties to come up with textual proposals.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the US, highlighted the need to reflect Protocol Article 8(3) (ERTs to report to the COP/MOP) in the provision.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the party-driven nature of the process and expressed commitment to a transparent process at COP 17 and COP/MOP 7 in Durban.
The US suggested addressing deliverables and, with the EU, highlighted the GCF e2 80 99s initial capitalization of US$9.7 billion prior to Lima.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the GEF is not the financial mechanism but its operating entity.
Bahrain, for the G-77/CHINA, and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said they consider conclusions for all sub-items together as a package.
On technology transfer, the G77/CHINA explained that the poor responses to the surveys to establish needs can be attributed to the absence of specific frameworks for the implementation of the Convention.
Switzerland, for the EIG, warned that attempting to change the balanced Durban package will put Doha at risk.
JAPAN called for clear SCCF guidelines and for consideration of LDC Fund experiences.
 SWITZERLAND suggested deleting "state-of-the-art" in paragraph XII as it was not part of the language agreed to at COP 1 and replacing "address" with "mitigating and adapting to" in the last line.
BRAZIL highlighted problems with GWPs, and NEW ZEALAND said they would be open to considering other methods.
CHILE, CHINA, the EU, SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA supported a standing body with a stable and fixed basis.
The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC proposed channeling support from developed countries to advance policies and regulations on climate change.
SENEGAL, supported by BRAZIL, INDIA and the GAMBIA, highlighted the proven additionality of small-scale renewable technology and supported the development of positive lists.
COLOMBIA supported a mechanism to increase ambition through periodic presentation of commitments starting in 2021.
Parties diverged on, inter alia: referring to progress towards the US$100 billion goal; and whether to give guidance to the incoming COP Presidency on the topic of the next high-level ministerial dialogue.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the need to respect the balance between the two negotiating tracks and emphasized that the outcome should not compromise or prejudge the overall objective of reaching a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally-binding outcome in the future.
The EU noted that the TOR only called for starting consideration of modalities at SB-17.
ETHIOPIA reported on the work by the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Financing, describing efforts to identify financing sources and informing delegates that the aim was to report the outcomes by November 2010.
SINGAPORE and several other AOSIS members stated that the AWG-LCA’s outcome must be a global and comprehensive legally-binding agreement that is complementary to the Kyoto Protocol.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, stressed the need for expedited procedures for the approval of NAPAs.
NORWAY \t\tstressed challenges in the transport sector and, with the EU, \t\thighlighted the co-benefits of mitigation measures.
INDIA stressed that there should be no review of adequacy of developing country actions.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA questioned the need for extra informal consultations on the issue.
The G-77/CHINA expressed preference for keeping provisions on the means of implementation in the relevant substantive chapters rather than in the finance chapter.
On  , the G-77/China, with the African Group and AOSIS, emphasized long-term financing that is new and additional to ODA.
On the number and length of commitment periods, the G-77/CHINA and AOSIS supported a single commitment period of 5 years, AUSTRALIA supported one commitment period of 5 or 8 years and the EU proposed one commitment period of 8 years.
The G-77/CHINA \t\tsaid the initiatives should be considered as background information.
BOLIVIA said carbon markets are not the only solution.
NORWAY, with NEW ZEALAND, called for revisiting previous TEM topics and adding sessions on carbon pricing and removal of fossil fuel subsidies.
JAPAN called for extracting elements of the Copenhagen Accord for a balanced set of decisions.
She announced that AILAC and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) will be submitting a paper on how the Talanoa Dialogue can help realize more ambitious NDCs.
The following countries were assessed: Belarus, Canada, Cyprus, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Spain and the US.
In discussions, a number of parties welcomed the Secretariat’s technical paper and Norway, Switzerland and the EU said it would be useful to have an analogous paper on developing country pledges.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that text on mitigation, adaptation and MRV presented problems for his delegation and that the current text does not meet the expectations of countries with economies in transition.
Several developing country Parties and the EU called for sufficient time to consider the report.
The GAMBIA \t\tstressed the importance of a feedback mechanism to continuously review \t\tthe clearing house.
ANTIGUA and BARBUDA pointed out that the group does not have a mandate to discuss amendments to the Convention or the Protocol.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said a discussion on legal options cannot take place without hearing views on “how we would actually get there,” and stressed flexibility to allow for scaling up of ambition over time.
Bolivia, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), identified Cancun as a step back for the AWG-KP and called for agreement on a second commitment period in Durban.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, proposed adding in the conclusions that the SBI notes the deep concerns raised by several developing countries in accessing the necessary financial resources to fulfill their obligations under the Convention.
With AUSTRALIA, he underscored that unpacking some of the concepts in the section on time frames would be valuable.
AUSTRALIA underlined that some paragraphs in Part 1 had not yet been discussed, but may attract broad agreement.
On the role of the Executive Board in approving new methodologies and guidelines related to baselines, monitoring plans and project boundaries, CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed additional text suggesting the Board should review rather than approve new methodologies and guidelines, and should recommend these to the COP/MOP for approval.
 \t\tSwitzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted the \t\tIPCC 92s Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) and called for urgent action.
IPCC Vice-Chair Barrett suggested putting the Principle 10(b) text in a footnote, which was supported by the Netherlands, the Russian Federation, France, the US, Ireland, Algeria, and Norway.
El Salvador, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), emphasized the need to operationalize the GCF in Durban.
On the assessment of the impacts of response measures, ZIMBABWE said this would depend on the availability of information on policies and measures.
Cape Verde, for AOSIS, identified Durban as an important milestone on the eve of the expiration of the first commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and in the wake of the new commitments agreed in Cancun.
The EU stressed the need for a decision addressing INDCs, in particular upfront information to be included, and the pre-COP 21 process to consider and analyze them.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, underscored that the fourth review should be a full review of the financial mechanism and not just a review of the operating entity.
Responding to a call by Bahamas, for AOSIS, to hold workshops to improve direct access capacity, AFB Chair Khan explained that the mandate of the Fund is to finance in-country adaptation projects rather than capacity building.
The G-77/China, opposed by the US, New Zealand and Australia, suggested differentiating between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
JAPAN, with MEXICO, requested that boundaries be defined for spillover effects, and AUSTRALIA suggested that these could relate to programmes and measures taken by parties in relation to obligations.
On developed country mitigation, the US requested bracketing numbers referring to aggregate range of emission reductions, and for inserting a bracketed option “x” and a footnote explaining that “x is equal to the sum of the reductions by parties.” The US stressed the need for a structure that is “very different” from the Kyoto Protocol, based on a bottom-up structure and actions implemented domestically.
Egypt, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, highlighted Doha as a turning point in regional efforts to address climate change.
AUSTRALIA and the US supported a stock taking exercise to review available information, including from recent workshops.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted the importance of the NWP and research and systematic observation, and called for increased attention to the LDC work programme.
CANADA said legally-binding consequences were also justified on competitiveness grounds.
 \t\tOn a sentence explaining why the 93reasons \t\tfor concern 94 are assessed to be stronger than in the TAR, the US called \t\tfor removing 93especially 94 when referring to especially vulnerable \t\tsystems, sectors and regions, noting that the word was not clearly \t\tdefined nor was it fully addressed by WGII.
OPEC reminded delegates of the need to minimize the adverse effects of policies and measures to address climate change and said that adequate provision should be made for the transfer of technology to developing countries.
The EU, SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA stressed the quantifiability of NDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need, inter alia, to: ensure a comprehensive approach to policies and measures; enhance the research, development and use of fossil fuel sequestration technologies; remove market distortions in the energy sector; encourage the diversification of energy sources; and explicitly refer to compensation.
The UMBRELLA GROUP supported having agriculture as a separate item.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed that this session should focus on progressing arrangements under cooperative approaches and further discussing response measures.
IRAN, ALGERIA and BURKINA FASO encouraged establishing links with capacity building and UNFCCC Article 6.
BOLIVIA said that countries, rather than the COP, should decide on which carbon "pools" to include in A&amp;R projects, and that it was important to include geo-referencing in the draft decision.
The CG-11 urged Parties not to reopen or reinterpret the Bonn Agreements.
AUSTRALIA suggested introducing text ensuring definitional and accounting consistencies between first and subsequent commitment periods.
SOUTH AFRICA opposed the "dumping" of unwanted technology by developed countries in developing countries.
On support, the G-77/CHINA lamented a lack of adequate reassurances on MOI.
  On a new non-paper, presented by Facilitator Mukahanana-Sangarwe, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that the cluster on plans and strategies should be moved to the end of the text and opposed including paragraphs referring to, inter alia, targets.
PALAU urged for transfer of locally appropriate technologies and best practices, and disseminating information to local communities.
AUSTRALIA, in outlining its vision for a compliance system, said the compliance process would be initiated through the Article 8 (review of information) expert review process.
On emission reductions, SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the need to reflect specific criteria for determining Annex I emission reductions.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that adaptation, including mitigation co-benefits, continues to be the key priority for developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, \t\topposed by SLOVENIA and RUSSIA, was not supportive of the reference in \t\tthe text to nuclear power as a mitigation option.
CHINA referred to multiple windows for financing through specialized funds under the guidance of, and fully accountable to, the COP.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted linkages between the AWGs and the need for cooperation.
 In paragraph X, on the analysis of environmental and socio-economic effects, SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, proposed replacing "environmental and socio-economic" with "aggregated."
CANADA identified convergence around certain ideas, including that developed countries must take the lead through mid-term emission reductions, and called for a “holistic view” on the comparability of efforts, taking into account a range of mitigation actions.
In a paragraph concerning the impact of Annex I commitments on developing countries, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, added references to burden sharing for all Parties and relevant studies.
SRI LANKA highlighted the differences between the mechanisms and suggested that there be different registries.
The US, with CANADA and the EU, \t\tproposed that non-Annex I Parties should also be allowed to submit \t\tinformation if they wish to do so.
Switzerland, the US, Ireland and others felt that a proposed additional clause specifying that e2 80 9ca decrease of 0.1 in the pH of ocean surface water since the beginning of the industrial era corresponds to a 26% increase in hydrogen ion concentration e2 80 9d was too technical.
The US noted that capacity building represents a shared activity that is not an end in itself, but rather a means to achieve results.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and others noted the need to strengthen and intensify the means of implementation for adaptation.
Responding to a question by AUSTRALIA on drivers of the increase in Italy e2 80 99s photovoltaic power generation capacity to 18 gigawatts, ITALY mentioned the use of quota and feed-in tariff systems, saying the latter is being adjusted to ensure excessive incentives are not given to mature technologies.
GUYANA, CHINA and others emphasized that the Protocol must continue into the second commitment period.
Participants agreed to integrate the Chinese and EU proposals into the draft text.
CHINA opposed the proposals, noting historical responsibility and the clear distinction between mitigation by developed and developing countries, also reflected in sub-paragraphs 1(b)(i) and 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
The EU welcomed provisions in the Kyoto Protocol for a review at MOP-2 and for initiating consideration of second period commitments.
As the incoming Presidency, SOUTH AFRICA announced consultations on Saturday on the Durban outcome.
Tuvalu, supported by Saudi Arabia, AILAC and others, suggested adding a new paragraph, after clarifying that the ADP has finished its mandate, which decides to establish the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Outcome.
SAUDI ARABIA and NORWAY cautioned against delaying necessary decisions on the CDM.
Bolivia noted the absence of his proposals in the text, referring to the text as “Copenhagen +.” The Gambia expressed concern that long-term finance and references to LDCs and SIDS were not reflected in the text.
  Discussions under these items focused on requests to the Adaptation Committee regarding the nature and substance of its reporting and workplan, and on various issues of importance to LDCs, including financial support, capacity building, and the LDC Expert Group.
SUDAN suggested continuation of discussions in drafting groups.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the importance of improving cooperation with observer organizations.
The US underscored their confidence in allowing the Chair to facilitate negotiations by bringing all documents from Copenhagen together.
AOSIS expressed willingness to move forward on the issue, but \t\temphasized that a dialogue on issues related to the second and \t\tsubsequent commitment periods must consider wider matters.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of Peru and Guatemala, proposed that representatives of the COP, possibly through the Standing Committee and the GCF Board work on drafting the arrangements to complete work by COP 19.
Responding to a question on policies for heavy industries, he highlighted their inclusion in the EU ETS and fluorocarbon regulation.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and JAPAN, suggested that the \t\tgroup draft a COP decision.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said that, although enhanced action on financial resources and investment involved net transfer to developing countries, this did not preclude developing countries from acting themselves.
After further comments \t\tfrom CHILE, NEW ZEALAND and GERMANY regarding clarification of the \t\tprocess and time scale of equilibration, delegates agreed to the \t\toriginal version of the draft text, which states that this carbon \t\tdioxide would 93eventually equilibrate with the carbon dioxide in the \t\tatmosphere.
The US cited compromises made on fast-start finance and a finance target for 2020, emphasizing that no further decisions are required for the AWG-LCA to complete its work on this issue.
On factoring out, BRAZIL, for the G-77/China, supported by the EU, said this reflected principles agreed in the Marrakesh Accords and needs to be addressed before the second commitment period.
The EU, supported by Japan and Norway, expressed \t\tconcerns over the heavy agenda and overlap with a SBSTA item on Protocol \t\tArticle 2.3 (see following section, below).
The US underscored the importance of good quality reports and questioned the delay in submission of Annex I inventories.
Opposed by the EU and the US, MEXICO, with BANGLADESH, supported conducting, and offered to host, regional and sub-regional TEMs, with BRAZIL willing to explore this idea.
FRANCE suggested an ultimate per capita reduction in C02 compatible with convergence at a global reduction of 7 percent by 2010.
NORWAY said the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples’ Convention (ILO Convention No.
INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA observed that the item had been deleted because there was no consensus on further discussion.
PANAMA, for the CfRN, noted REDD+ is a central element of the 2015 agreement, and called for bridging the Warsaw Framework for REDD+ and the GCF logic framework.
NORWAY proposed maximizing and incentivizing ambitious mitigation actions, including through payments based on verified results.
The EU said national mitigation plans and adaptation policies should have a technology component and that the institutional structure should be effective, flexible and innovative.
The EU, US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand highlighted progress made, including the GEF 92s third replenishment, the establishment of the LDC Fund, and development of guidelines for National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs).
On the first section of the draft text, the G-77/ CHINA opposed text qualifying the assessment and evaluation of action related to adaptation.
The G-77/CHINA said any consideration of the LULUCF process should begin after the release of the IPCC Special Report.
She noted a workshop in the UK on regional climate variation and human activities.
The EU stressed its ongoing efforts to encourage progress and a willingness and openness to discuss further relevant issues outside this meeting.
The US supported creating a process with: biennial national reports; compilation of reports; an expert review; a report by the expert review team; international assessment of the expert review team’s report in a facilitative manner under the SBI with written questions and answers; and final compilation into a summary report by the Secretariat.
CARICOM pointed to the e2 80 9cpoor track record e2 80 9d of mid-term reviews under the Convention.
CHINA stated that many differences of opinion are due to misinformation and an MCP could allow Parties to exchange views on interpretation.
CHINA and KUWAIT said it is premature to draw conclusions.
NEW ZEALAND proposed inserting alternative language in the preamble, recalling the definition of supplementarity in decision 2/CMP.1 (principles, nature and scope of the flexibility mechanisms).
The US underscored new announcements on its emissions reduction target in the range of 17% below 2005 levels by 2020, with a trajectory to 42% reduction by 2030 to meet the goal of 83% by 2050.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for keeping the text’s structure consistent with the BAP and suggested moving proposals relating to the text’s structure to a separate document.
BRAZIL favored the reference as the GEF was the FCCC financial mechanism and a significant proportion of the IPCC ef bf bds finances are used to finance developing country participation.
The US said automaticity of sanctions meant that the consequence of a particular case of non-compliance would be predetermined and applied automatically.
INDIA illustrated an equity or convergence emissions paradigm for mitigation.
During discussions, the EU said a robust accounting system is needed in addition to review and said the US approach to review might suggest a system of post hoc rules, with parties individually deciding, inter alia, on the basket of greenhouse gases, LULUCF accounting and use of offsets.
NEW ZEALAND urged a strategic approach.
 The G-77/CHINA stressed that Annex I parties should take economy-wide quantified emission reduction commitments that are ambitious, comparable and compatible with a long-term goal.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted, with concern, the lack of political signals that developed countries are prepared to undertake ambitious, legally-binding emission reduction commitments.
INDIA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, called for an integrated summary of the work done on ambition under the ADP, AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
VENEZUELA, with BRAZIL and BOLIVIA, underscored that the CDM cannot function outside of the context of QELROs, and therefore without a second commitment period.
BURKINA FASO and MOROCCO said all countries should be eligible for participation.
TUVALU, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and GEORGIA requested more advance notice for meetings and the topics to be discussed.
Following a request by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA that the cross-cutting issue of funding be addressed in a separate group, President Pronk said the group on "Box A" would be allocated more time to address this issue.
The EU disagreed, preferring a balanced view.
The EU noted that some elements regarding the characteristics of an MCP need further consideration before it can be finalized.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that without a clear idea of the nature of the CDM and the number of expected projects, it would be impossible to elaborate on the EB.
On reporting on technology transfer and financial assistance, CANADA, with the US, said exhaustive reporting on all areas related to climate change, including reporting on private and public technology transfer, is impractical and beyond the means of most Parties’ budgets.
On Monday, 8 June, the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and ETHIOPIA, called on the SBI to identify the needs of developing countries, utilizing the SBSTA and the IPCC.
Supporting this, the US cautioned against creating a hierarchy regarding the importance of products, while Saudi Arabia stressed that the SPMs and the SYR are the main products.
BOLIVIA reminded of Paris Agreement decisions on developing guidance to the GCF to provide finance for alternative policy approaches, and lamented that the GCF postponed considering this issue to its next board meeting.
While the rationale for this position was not openly spelled out, many attributed this initial reluctance to discuss the new finance goal to the US walking away from the Agreement as well as political and economic challenges in many industrialized countries.
The EU said communications should be considered on a country-level basis and more frequent workshops would be beneficial.
Several parties observed the need to recognize the special circumstances of small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs, with SAUDI ARABIA noting that this is already in the Convention.
The US, with ARGENTINA, CHILE, COLOMBIA, and VENEZUELA, argued for transparent rules of procedure.
TUVALU favored exploring the \t\testablishment of the ad hoc working group and suggested the \t\tidentification of a focal point for indigenous peoples within the \t\tSecretariat.
COLOMBIA cautioned against addressing issues for the first time in Copenhagen and suggested discussion on whether issues should be handled by amendment or decision were best left to the legal group.
NAMIBIA said an adaptive response requires, inter alia, an interdisciplinary and multi-sectoral approach.
IRAN voiced its concern over the current energy policies of industrialized countries that generate market imperfections.
AILAC proposed high-level engagement on a summary of the TEMs and UN Climate Summit follow-up, and called for providing space for new announcements on enhanced mitigation efforts, increased multilateral cooperation and means of implementation to support these.
BRAZIL, supported by the US, and opposed by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, called for a placeholder for issues that have been mandated to CMA 1 but are not currently under the APA work programme.
Noting that CDM focuses on sustainable development, SRI LANKA said its objective is different from that of the other mechanisms.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, identified further areas, including additionality of finance and clarifying developing countries’ needs.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA presented on his country’s low-carbon green growth strategy of reducing emissions by 30% compared to business as usual.
SAUDI ARABIA called for a paragraph in the section on considerations on any further work to reflect negative consequences on developing countries.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported: establishing contact groups to progress deliberations; deepening understanding on the ADP roadmap to be adopted in Doha; and progressive discussions on a 2013 work plan on ambition.
The G-77/CHINA proposed adding language on the need to better understand the implementation of policies and measures by developed countries in order to strive to minimize adverse impacts.
 \t\t\tParticipants highlighted good practices for research and analysis, \t\t\tincluding the ORCHID climate risk management methodology, piloted by \t\t\tthe UK’s Department for International Development, which addresses \t\t\tthe relationship between disaster risk reduction and climate change.
ZIMBABWE emphasized the voluntary nature of AIJ.
NEW ZEALAND reflected on how differentiation evolved between past COPs, from CBDR and respective capabilities, and self-differentiation at COP 19, to CBDR in light of different circumstances at COP 20.
PERU supported the third alternative with elements from the second one.
BOLIVIA noted the necessity of removing barriers to technology transfer.
The EU proposals contain concrete and useful measures.
The US called for less emphasis on details of domestic actions or national circumstances and for more time for data collection on emissions trading and CDM projects.
The US said annex-based differentiation is not a path to the new agreement and, with Japan, opposed “bifurcated language.”
The EU, supported by JAPAN, suggested it should be the role of SBSTA, while SAMOA, the G-77/CHINA, said it should be a function of the supervisory committee.
On   (Article 6), the REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for inscribing the GCF and the GEF as financial entities of the agreement.
The EU and Switzerland, among others, stressed the need for clarity on the way forward to COP 24.
AOSIS, the US and AILAC made suggestions regarding their planning and follow up.
COSTA RICA underscored that his country’s proposal reflects the full spectrum of parties’ views and includes a global approach under which all countries mitigate their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adequate support will be provided for adaptation.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the SBSTA should provide scientific and technical advice and develop frameworks and methodologies to satisfy the Convention.
They opposed the US suggestion for automatic sanctions.
The EU and Norway supported inclusion of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and the Russian Federation cautioned against inclusion of insignificant gases.
JAPAN and the EU identified difficulties in assessing unintended consequences and called for information from those affected.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, requested that the importance of context be included in the Facilitator’s report.
She proposed both top-down approaches including economic modeling used by OECD and IEA and bottom-up approaches including examinations of sectors and cost effective technologies.
The PHILIPPINES reiterated that developing country ambition is linked to support from developed countries, and that developed country mitigation ambition relates to discussions in the AWGs.
BOLIVIA emphasized that the work should also include other issues.
The EU said the guidelines should include the elements for review under the FCCC and the Protocol, but would single out those parts of the guidelines not applicable to Annex I Parties that are not Parties to the Protocol.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, called for finalization of work on: measuring, reporting and verification (MRV), national reporting; and payments for results-based action.
KUWAIT said there are no satisfactory answers to uncertainties and contradictory data.
 JAPAN emphasized the importance of the issue of technology transfer.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by GHANA, agreed to the proposal, but requested that other text in the section not be deleted.
CHINA urged Annex II countries to provide adequate financial support to CGE.
On Friday, 4 December, the EU, supported by Colombia for AILAC, Maldives for the Alliance of Small Islands States (AOSIS), and the US called for clarifying the date for the submission of contributions.
BOLIVIA called for a new mechanism for participation and highlighted the need for a global referendum on climate change.
AUSTRALIA suggested using the scope to bring out areas that are not covered in the AWG-LCA’s negotiating text.
He also pointed out that the COP President, in her absence, can designate a COP Vice-President to preside at a meeting and that in doing so, the COP Vice-President would not represent the interests of GRULAC.
JAPAN called for a ten-year cycle as a signal to investors, and expressed willingness to consider a mid-term review focused on enhancing and understanding contributions.
The EU highlighted the urgency of finalizing draft decision text in Durban so as to operationalize the Adaptation Committee.
On Inventory Management, CANADA noted the lack of reference to confidential information, and JAPAN said the extent of, and access to, confidential information is resolved under Article 8.
Japan stressed the need for explicit discussion on uncertainties, and Co-Chair Field highlighted the link between the treatment of uncertainty and decision-making under uncertainty, with the UK also stressing the communication of uncertainty.
 The President announced the following nominations: Africa \'Mauritania and Zimbabwe; Asia \' India and Japan; Eastern Europe \' Hungary and the Russian Federation; Latin America and the Caribbean \' Antigua and Barbuda and Argentina; Western Europe and Others \' Australia and Germany; and AOSIS \' Samoa.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that parties continue to work on the text for an additional day, concurrent with ministerial meetings.
 \t\tAt the end of the morning session, INDIA delivered a presentation on her \t\tcountry ef bf bds commercial energy needs and GHG mitigation potential in key \t\tsectors, linking energy to the Millennium Development Goals.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA noted inclusion of revegetation on degraded lands as a point of convergence.
JAPAN, supported by NEW ZEALAND, suggested strengthening linkages with existing institutions, including the technology transfer information clearinghouse TT:CLEAR and the CTCN.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, recommended a decision allowing SBSTA to continue methodological work after the COP.
Supporting the draft decision, the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) cautioned against granting exemptions prior to the Protocol\'s entry into force and said Parties should explore other options.
The US said the compliance body had a role if the Party concerned refused a recommended adjustment.
Switzerland and the US expressed their preference for suspending rather than closing the APA session.
 On the section e2 80 99s title, Saudi Arabia requested referring to adaptation and mitigation e2 80 9coptions e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cmeasures, e2 80 9d while the UK preferred the more general title e2 80 9cAdaptation and Mitigation, e2 80 9d which was approved.
NICARAGUA and BOLIVIA called for Mother Earth to be reinserted in the text.
SWITZERLAND raised the issue of expert post reviews and evaluation of GHG inventories, and proposed a set of decisions for COP-4, which included calls for consideration of aerosols from combustion of fossil fuels, biomass burning and other greenhouse gas precursors as highlighted by the SAR; and the ratification of, and negotiation for a protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution.
The US suggested considering the technical paper first.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), highlighted the NWP, REDD+, and reporting on climate finance, adding that he looked forward to the completion of the 2013-2015 review.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested sub-issues under the use of market mechanisms could be e2 80 9cshuffled e2 80 9d at a later stage.
Sudan, for the African Group, noted progress on purpose (Article 2) in informal consultations, but lamented, with Australia, for the Umbrella Group, that in other areas parties held to positions and did not engage in the negotiations.
CROATIA requested the establishment of a contact group for consideration of this issue.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the Doha meeting must result in agreement on: a comparability and compliance framework for developed countries’ mitigation efforts; and clear mid-term targets for finance.
INDONESIA stressed the need for a common accounting system for bilateral, national and sub-national mitigation efforts.
NAMIBIA stressed the importance of tertiary level training for scientists and researchers and proposed that the Secretariat prepare a registry of available training resources.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, encouraged parties to observe the principles of good faith, transparency, inclusivity and openness, as well as an absolute commitment to the process.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the AGBM is on a separate track.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, spoke about \t\tmicro-insurance and tools and methodologies to assist LDCs.
Delegates then agreed to a proposal from CHINA reproducing a paragraph from the CDM text on the working language of the committee, the dissemination of its decisions, as well as the languages in which such decisions would be made available.
On "revegetation," the EU, NORWAY and PERU noted the need for a corresponding definition of "de-vegetation."
Regarding text requesting the SBSTA to consider the results obtained from the actions taken and to report them to COP-7, with a view to taking a decision in the lead-up to the COP/MOP, the US urged that the entire decision be bracketed.
SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA opposed any change to the consensus rule.
NIGERIA, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that developed countries were not engaging in meaningful FCCC implementation.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that their views were not represented in the text.
MALAYSIA said delegates should not prejudge transparency, comparability and consistency until the SBSTA can evaluate the communications.
The US called for defining countries that would submit biennial reports.
The G-77/CHINA proposed a mechanism under the Convention that includes technology panels.
In order to ensure climate objectives, CHILE said CBDR should not be interpreted in a way that blocks ambition or evades responsibility, and that development and climate protection should be seen as complementary, and not clashing, goals.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of including non-party stakeholders in the Dialogue and looked forward to creating inclusive partnerships.
Costa Rica, for the G-77/CHINA, said efforts to address climate change should not be compromised by the current financial crisis.
GUYANA called for Annex I countries to provide data on the contribution of LULUCF to their targets.
Recalling that most items related to MOI and the Paris Agreement are allocated to SBSTA and SBI, CHINA called for also capturing outcomes of these discussions in informal notes, to ensure a balanced approach.
MOROCCO supported holding the global average temperature below 2 c2 b0C above pre-industrial levels, while scaling up efforts to limit temperature increase to below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The EU suggested designing ARD definitions specifically for the purpose of implementing Article 3.3, and the UK raised the possibility of customizing the IPCC scenarios.
The CZECH REPUBLIC said that emissions in his country have decreased more than 20% since 1990 due to extreme economic changes, but such a “shock approach” is not available for all countries.
On institutional arrangements, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ALGERIA and ARGENTINA preferred anchoring institutional arrangements in the TEC and CTCN.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the language on a shared vision needs to be substantive and operative, and cover all four building blocks of the BAP.
Stressing that this is for the SBI to decide, NORWAY, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU, supported a proposal by NEW ZEALAND to invite the SBI to give appropriate consideration to the issue in considering funding options.
VENEZUELA said the group should not contradict other proposals under Convention Article 17 and consider progress under the AWG-LCA.
JAPAN, SINGAPORE and the EU said the IMO and ICAO are the suitable places to address these issues.
BRAZIL, supported by AUSTRALIA, the US and SWITZERLAND, suggested noting health co-benefits of mitigation policies.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned against an overly narrow approach that disregards current realities.
AOSIS underscored the need for further discussion on, inter alia, extending share of proceeds, compliance, new gases and AAU surplus carry over.
Japan, Canada and the US stressed enabling private investment and low-carbon growth, with the EU and the US clarifying that private finance will not replace public finance.
 INDIA underscored the need to identify sources within and outside the UNFCCC and called for reviewing the TOR given to the “financial bodies.” MAURITANIA said the allocation of financial resources should be based on criteria of justice and fairness.
Opposed by CANADA, he said the decisions on the three mechanisms should have three different chapeaus.
The US supported five-year cycles, expressing preference for synchronizing parties e2 80 99 national cycles, so as to garner public attention to drive ambition.
Parties then discussed paragraph 132 of the consolidated text on strengthening the Technology Mechanism/institutional arrangements, with CANADA saying it cannot be further streamlined.
The US also proposed that the CGE use national communications to assess opportunities for mitigation and adaptation in developing countries.
Noting readiness to enter into negotiations, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, called for addressing “crux” issues quickly.
The PHILIPPINES noted that the workshop report reflected recommendations by the co-chairs on the basis of their understanding of what had been discussed.
The G-77/CHINA proposed bracketing reference to sub-paragraphs 1 and b. VENEZUELA, opposed by the US and CANADA, included reference to Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of P&amp;Ms).
The EU suggested adding consideration of the implications of this work, "if any," on the work under Articles 5, 7 and 8 at a later stage.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at the “insistence” of Annex I parties on a single outcome in Copenhagen and stressed that this undermines the mandate under the Bali Roadmap to finalize negotiations on: further commitments of Annex I parties for the second and subsequent commitment periods under the Protocol; and an agreed outcome under the Convention, aimed at sustained and full implementation of its provisions.
On a paragraph inviting relevant international and intergovernmental organizations to report on their activities to SB-17, delegates compromised by accepting the EU 92s preference for reference to the IPCC, while at the same time accommodating the G-77/ CHINA 92s desire to refer to P&amp;Ms "in Annex I Parties" in another part of the text.
The US, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the EU, CANADA, NORWAY, JAPAN and AOSIS voiced concern that the text was not balanced and asked that their objection be noted on the record.
The US advocated a clear structure for commitments and for objectively measurable targets.
IRAN stressed that the workshops should also address adaptation to the impact of response measures.
GRENADA stressed the need for an immediate response to the identified needs.
CUBA, for Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Ecuador, Egypt, Malaysia, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Thailand, Pakistan, Uruguay, Sierra Leone, Paraguay, India and Bolivia, supported by CHINA, outlined elements that should guide International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and IMO, including: Article 2.2 of the Kyoto Protocol (Annex I parties emission reductions from international transport); and respect the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities (CDBR); and recognition of the legal distinction between developed and developing countries’ obligations.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for: initiating work on a new quantified finance goal; reaching a decision on the Adaptation Fund; defining loss and damage; and completing the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue by COP 23.
The GAMBIA identified shortcomings in the NAPA guidelines, while highlighting achievements such as integration of adaptation into national planning and increased awareness in ministries.
On reference to the CBDR principle in the text on shared vision, the US stated they would not accept the text to the extent it is not read as consistent with the UNFCCC and the Cancun Agreements.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that national capabilities and differentiation in developing procedures and modalities should also be reflected.
SWITZERLAND said the Secretariat 92s suggestions deserved closer scrutiny.
On the preamble, the US, JAPAN and CANADA, opposed by the EU, SAUDI ARABIA and SAMOA, again urged deleting reference to specific UNFCCC and Protocol provisions.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over lack of progress on capacity building under the Convention and the Protocol, and drew attention to financial and technical constraints related to non-Annex I communications.
TANZANIA called for compliance mechanisms for finance.
CANADA \t\tsaid future action should allow parties to choose the best combination \t\tof results-oriented actions that lead to real reductions in greenhouse \t\tgas emissions.
In response, the US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, suggested the contact group address four questions: what type of decision should be made, when, by whom, and how it should move forward.
GRENADA and SAUDI ARABIA asked how the second report from the consultants tasked with conducting the study had been dealt with, with GRENADA noting that the CDM EB did not endorse this second report.
BOLIVIA underscored the importance of progress on this issue and highlighted a comprehensive approach, including forest ecosystems.
UKRAINE highlighted that more work is needed before a decision can be finalized.
ARGENTINA expressed concern over the adoption of a compliance regime and a possible amendment of the Protocol before its entry into force.
They also agreed to elect Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe (Zimbabwe) as the AWG-LCA Chair, Daniel Reifsnyder (US) as the AWG-LCA Vice-Chair and Teodora Obradovik-Grncarovska (Macedonia) as Rapporteur.
The PHILIPPINES asked for a group on finance and several countries highlighted capacity building.
On inputs, BOLIVIA stressed the content must be consistent with a fair and equitable sharing of the global carbon budget, which she suggested requires considering a country’s historical responsibility, ecological footprint and development and technological capacity.
The PHILIPPINES expressed concern with agreeing on the form of the Reference Manual before agreeing on the substance of its content.
GUYANA explained that from a “pragmatic and realistic standpoint” market sources are needed to complement public funding.
Arguing that linkages to legal matters were premature, SOUTH AFRICA suggested inviting party submissions on technical aspects of possible improvements to the flexibility mechanisms.
EGYPT called for the summary report to reflect hope towards jointly addressing climate change.
CANADA said an MCP could involve a representative group of Parties with expert input, if needed.
Responding to a US suggestion to develop separate scales and budgets for the Protocol and UNFCCC, Chair Ashe proposed developing such an approach to be funded by Parties to the Protocol starting in January 2004.
 \t\tSeveral delegates expressed satisfaction at the Board 92s work and many, \t\tincluding CHINA, the EU, IRAN, JAPAN, and the G-77/CHINA, suggested \t\tfurther improving the Board 92s management and CDM procedures.
The EU expressed concern that the mechanism to raise ambition over time had been significantly weakened.
SOUTH AFRICA supported an equity reference framework.
On the Nairobi work programme, the EU supported making it more relevant for practitioners and a COP decision to enhance its work.
On questions relating to linkages and context, NEW ZEALAND, the US, JAPAN and the EU advocated separating the context of the global stocktake from a question on increasing ambition.
ARGENTINA emphasized that establishing a forum is fundamental to address compliance by Annex I parties with their obligations under Protocol Articles 2.3 (adverse impacts of polices and measures) and 3.14 (adverse effects).
NEW ZEALAND said a registry of voluntary actions and MRV through national communications were insufficient.
The US reiterated its position on the need to include sinks during the first commitment period and said its proposal provided flexibility and was based on a long-term perspective.
El Salvador, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), urged recognition of the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR-RC).
INDIA, with CHINA and IRAN, recommended the use of Article 4.2 (g) (provision for non-Annex I Parties to bind themselves to commitments in 4.2 (a) and (b)).
JAPAN preferred discussing their proposals on policies and measures, MRV and review in the overarching contact group on mitigation.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION underscored the need for \t\tregional adaptation, regional projections and observation systems.
e2 80 9d AOSIS proposed disseminating the summary through a e2 80 9cweb-based manual on policy options.
GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, expressed disappointment at the inability to reach agreement.
Opposed by AOSIS, BOTSWANA and IRAN, the EU, with SWITZERLAND, proposed that AIJ should be credited retroactively.
The US, supported by CANADA and SWITZERLAND and opposed by CHINA, said the revision of guidelines was fundamental to improving second national communications.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said Copenhagen should produce a robust and resilient foundation to steer collective efforts, and welcomed discussions on a shared vision.
On international cooperation and R&amp;D, JAPAN and others underscored the need for cooperation on technology between governments, academics and industry.
He noted that long-term financing, capacity building and technology transfer are matters of survival for the LDCs.
On emissions trading, NEW ZEALAND noted interest in extending emissions trading to developing countries and proposed text reflecting this.
He highlighted the OECD Policy Guidance on Integrating Climate Change Adaptation into Development Cooperation, which provides a template for adaptation integration and ongoing work to develop manuals to implement the Guidance.
CANADA and JAPAN raised concerns about introducing new criteria concerning compliance action plans.
Stressing “this is a global crisis,” MARSHALL ISLANDS reminded that, while a “favorite phrase here is nationally determined,” parties are in Paris “to fight for what is globally necessary.”
NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, UAE and IRAN supported \t\tCCS as a viable option under the CDM.
In discussions of means to deal with uncertainties, Canada, India, Thailand and others supported referring to a “principle of conservativeness.” Parties disagreed as to whether this was a policy or technical issue, with the US insisting that it be excluded because it has not been defined.
On further rules, the US emphasized the need for a system that can accommodate all, so as to maximize both effort and participation.
The US highlighted the importance of considering longer-term emission pathways and several countries highlighted there are multiple pathways to achieve given stabilization levels.
She underscored direct access as a separate principle, while the EU questioned whether all the principles were required.
China, for the LMDCs, and the EU noted that the paragraph’s placement could suggest that the focus of workstream 2 is only on voluntary activities.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA suggested that the Secretariat explore funding options for different national circumstances.
The EU highlighted its experience with an annual compliance regime under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
AOSIS called for considering adaptation and loss and damage as separate issues.
AUSTRALIA said that outcomes from processes such as the G-8, MEF and the Pacific Islands Forum could provide useful input.
AOSIS, supported by BRAZIL, also on behalf of ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, stressed the need for in-depth dialogue on the governance and operational modalities of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, called for SBSTA work on this item and a possible expert meeting before COP-4.
NORWAY underscored the need for incentives to take action.
LIBERIA asked if consultants \t\thad considered investment for countries with natural assets such as \t\tforests that provide benefits to the global environment.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND emphasized the importance of framing Kyoto Protocol commitments in the context of a global legally-binding agreement.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), expressed commitment to working towards early completion of the AWG-KP’s work to avoid a gap between commitment periods, while highlighting links between the two tracks.
JAPAN said the issue of reporting on supplementarity relating to mechanisms should be forwarded to ministers for consideration.
JAPAN noted a prospective proposal on incentives.
 POLAND proposed replacing the text in paragraph XII on modeling with text from the FCCC: "Modeling of different scenarios of the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere."
Saudi Arabia and Algeria stressed all developing countries must adapt to spillover effects and, opposed by the African Group, AOSIS, the US and the EU, supported inclusion of response measures under adaptation.
 Malaysia shared the disappointment of AOSIS and said the language is as ambiguous as the original commitments adopted in 1992.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said assistance should be provided through existing mechanisms, called for a legally-binding regime applicable to all parties, and stressed the need to update the existing regime in line with 21st century realities.
MEXICO, AOSIS and TUVALU suggested considering regional TEMs.
AUSTRALIA proposed text on national schedules and intended mitigation contributions, including that each party individually update their respective national schedules in accordance with modalities to be agreed by the governing body.
AOSIS suggested a committee on adaptation under the Convention and enhancing regional mechanisms.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, highlighted the latest science and urged stabilization at below 350 ppm, peaking emissions by 2015 and emission reductions of more than 95% by 2050.
On paragraphs 13-16 (INDCs communication), ARGENTINA, Chile, for AILAC, CHINA, INDIA, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA, TANZANIA and many others emphasized the relevance of the principles and provisions of the Convention.
INDIA stressed the need to discuss MRV separately for Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with AUSTRALIA, Vanuatu, for AOSIS, and the US, underlined the importance of feedback and guidance from the LEG.
 Regarding commitments of non-Annex I Parties, the US slide presentation prompted numerous complaints from developing countries by suggesting that greenhouse forcing from developing countries will exceed that of developed countries emissions in the next century.
CHINA and BRAZIL sought accelerated funding of second national communications.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, called for separate discussions on capacity building for developing countries and countries with economies in transition.
The EU also noted the need to include their proposal that developed countries must reduce emissions in aggregate by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020, and by 80-95% by 2050.
JAPAN cautioned that a reference to Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 suggested implementation of the Protocol.
TUVALU said it would be premature to have conclusions on text that had yet to be discussed by the group.
The EU said the focus should be placed on the network rather than the creation of a centralized institution.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said groups of Parties can be differentiated according to emissions, indicators of development or other factors.
The US said the issue should be deferred until SBSTA clarifies the tasks for experts that do not duplicate the work of other fora.
BRAZIL, \t\topposed by SWITZERLAND, proposed new text, pending approval by the \t\tG-77/China, on confirmation of involvement by low-income communities \t\tprior to validation.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: enhanced provision of MOI by developed countries; coordination between the technology and financial mechanisms; and equal treatment of mitigation, adaptation, MOI, and transparency of action and support in the 2015 agreement.
The EU, Canada and Norway said the draft decision provided a good basis for negotiations.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that there were diverse capacities within developing countries regarding technology and finances.
INDIA said financing is about incremental costs for mitigation and adaptation, which provide no returns on investment, and therefore will not be supplied by the private sector.
COLOMBIA emphasized that the aim of its proposal is not to transfer Annex I commitments.
The EU restated its target \t\t(15-50% reductions by 2050), highlighted its Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) \t\tand said commitments must be clearly defined and fair.
Expressing confidence in the ability of parties to move forward, the US highlighted recent developments in his country, including the introduction of a new climate bill in the Senate and the intention of the Environmental Protection Agency to move towards regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.
MEXICO proposed including language indicating that market-based approaches shall be “country-driven.” KENYA asked for the inclusion of principles on upfront funding and equity.
Regarding historical cumulative emissions, she said that history does not begin until 1984 according to the US presentation.
The EU, opposed by CANADA, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, emphasized the establishment of a consultative process to ensure continuity of information exchange.
AUSTRALIA and the US proposed language on convening a contact group during SBSTA-5 to further this work.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA expressed support for the second alternative, and noted the AOSIS position highlighting, inter alia, best available science, urgency and impacts on LDCs and SIDS as the benchmark.
The US said ICA should go hand-in-hand with biennial reports and should provide input for the Review.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said the balance struck in the Paris outcome between mitigation and adaptation needs to be maintained, and that intellectual property rights should not be a barrier for technology transfer.
The EU, AILAC, the US and others supported a common framework, with flexibility regarding the timing and detail in the reporting, and with support to developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA presented a revised text on objectives and guiding principles.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for COP 22 to be an “implementation and action COP.”
CHILE, the EU and US objected to referring to the importance of adhering to adopted principles of free and unrestricted exchange of information, noting that such principles do not exist.
On progress made in climate change negotiations, PALAU said it was disappointed at the lack of progress being made at COP-5.
The US supported developing a clearer sense of potential demand, while avoiding lock-in, and the collection of a range of information on the supply-side on possible host institutions.
ECUADOR called for a focus on linkages between gaps in mitigation, finance, technology and adaptation.
However, the EU and US questioned the added value of such a \t\tgroup, and the EU suggested further consideration at SBSTA 28.
IRAN distinguished CDM from other mechanisms as a multilateral rather than bilateral mechanism, with international supervision.
Opposed by Saudi Arabia and supported by Mexico and the EU, Brazil recommended renewing SBSTA 92s mandate on this issue.
Regarding the decision that future work should enable an assessment of demonstrable progress of Annex I Parties in achieving their Protocol commitments, the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and the EU underlined the importance of this issue.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the APA must be comprehensive, and reflect the “delicate” balance achieved in the Paris Agreement.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by IRAN, noted Article 4.8, stating that funding action be considered in regard to the specific needs of developing countries.
AUSTRALIA \t\tcalled for analysis of available tools and methods, and for targeted \t\tworkshops.
On the strategic plan, Germany, the UK, the US, Tanzania and others underlined that the two SRs, one on oceans and cryosphere, and the other on climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and GHG fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems should not be approved in parallel at the same meeting.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that the views of all delegations, including his own, were not acknowledged in the Chair’s summary.
The EU highlighted, inter alia: enhanced reporting of capacity building best practices through national communications, in order to enable monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the capacity-building framework; and the indicative list of items to consider for further implementation of decision 2/CP.7 (capacity building in developing countries).
BOTSWANA, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed an amendment to the conclusions to reaffirm the need for a work programme, taking into account national circumstances and the availability of resources.
Albert Binger, CCCCC, noted that although SIDS have identified climate change as the number one issue, politicians have yet to act on this.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Bangladesh, for the LDCs, called for a focus on actions rather than processes.
CANADA said the reports were the factual basis that determined the need for further steps.
Guatemala, for the countries comprising the Central American Integration System (SICA), with, the Gambia, for the LDCs, said it is essential to reach agreement on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
He outlined a proposal on behalf of the US, JAPAN and CANADA to account for the contribution of forests in Annex I Parties.
The EU stated that the process should be governed by the COP.
The EIG stressed the limitation of carry-over of surplus AAUs.
Honduras, for SICA, stressed the need to complete the AWG-LCA’s mandate under the Bali Action Plan and evaluate which of its elements have not been completed by COP 18.
AOSIS called for a focused, urgent and meaningful response to the “numbers” issue.
Regarding a COP decision on a mandate to conclude an LBI with a clear roadmap, the EU proposed six elements that should be included in such a mandate, including a clear end date for negotiations.
SBI also addressed various administrative and financial matters, \t\teventually agreeing on the programme budget for 2006-2007 at a level \t\tthat was US$1.75 million less than had been proposed.
COLOMBIA highlighted the benefits of a mid-term review of commitments.
The US said expanding access to only one type of NGO would be inappropriate and suggested strengthening existing channels.
The G-77/CHINA called for the will to implement "long overdue" actions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 at COP-6 and, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, and JAMAICA, called for two separate decisions.
Cautioning that CMA 1 may be a cause for celebration but not complacency, Maldives for AOSIS, called on building on the momentum of when “the international community puts its collective well-being over its individual interest.”
The EU said the challenge to ensure sufficient financing for climate change is significant but affordable.
BRAZIL requested clarification on the meaning of divergence and convergence.
SAUDI ARABIA sought clarification on the high-level segment at COP-4.
AOSIS said flexibility should be expressed in the individual provisions of the modalities, procedures, and guidance.
He explained that the shared vision should be underpinned by concrete action in the operative part with equal importance given to adaptation and mitigation, taking into account national circumstances, especially of the LDCs and SIDS.
CHINA stressed the importance of both quality and speed of the process under the Durban Platform and said that a lot of work remains under AWG-LCA.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the benefits of addressing the text’s guiding principles.
The African Group, G-77/China, AOSIS and the LDCs urged a second commitment period.
\t\tNEW ZEALAND suggested \t\tconsidering a possible new Protocol or other instrument under the \t\tConvention specifically addressing emissions from deforestation.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for quantifiable information on emissions reductions.
Mali, for the LDCs, underscored a simplified operating procedure for the Fund, enabling project approval within four months, and employment of local and regional expertise.
Japan, the EU, China, the US, Australia and others stressed the need to avoid duplication of work with the AWG-LCA.
The Chair of AG13, Patrick Sz e9ll (UK), presented the draft decision on the Multilateral Consultative Process (FCCC/CP/1998/L.3).
AOSIS also noted that SBSTA so far had failed to successfully integrate the TAR 92s findings into its work.
AUSTRALIA, supported by BRAZIL, highlighted that institutional arrangements are contingent on decisions in the finance group.
BRAZIL called for a strengthened institutional structure to achieve implementation of the Convention.
CANADA supported CDM support for adaptation activities.
INDONESIA underscored \t\t\tadaptation technology and the importance of early warning systems.
CHINA said that rules on MRV under the Kyoto Protocol should apply to Annex I countries that are not parties to the Protocol.
The US cautioned against delays in the CDM process and said sink-related activity must move forward in the project-based process.
The US voiced \t\tconcern that a pre-sessional workshop would be simply an extension of \t\tnegotiations.
The \t\tUS, supported by AUSTRIA, suggested that the IPCC Bureau should not have \t\tany formal decision making authority in approving observer \t\torganizations.
AOSIS called for establishing an international mechanism to address loss and damage at COP 18.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, highlighted the need for all countries to prepare NAPAs, difficulties with accessing existing adaptation funds, and the need for climate-resilient development within a sustainable development framework.
MAURITIUS and others highlighted the value of the Synthesis Report in increasing public awareness.
EL SALVADOR suggested closer links with the Adaptation Committee and Adaption Fund.
CHINA highlighted that NAMAs are voluntary and decided by developing countries, and that actions needed to be discussed alongside support.
ECUADOR identified the need for agreement on REDD+ to trigger national action.
TUVALU called for clarification on the work of the ADP, asking for further consideration of the elements text to ensure it is e2 80 9cmature e2 80 9d for negotiations next year.
AOSIS and others opposed linking AIJ to the Protocol mechanisms.
The EU said that convergence centered on the need to improve coordination with existing funds and entities.
The US suggested removing reference to the level of adaptation, and maintaining reference to the global stocktake in the framing chapter (Chapter 1).
On consequences applied by the facilitative branch, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, called for the deletion of text requiring that UNFCCC Article 4.3 (financial resources), 4.4 (costs of adaptation), 4.5 (technology transfer) and 4.7 (conditionality in the fulfillment of commitments) be taken into account.
In the discussion, the EU said he \t\twas not opposed to an amendment, but considered that for the time being, \t\tthere remained significant practical difficulties with its adoption and \t\tentry into force.
On the Delhi Declaration, JAPAN supported including the need to address reductions beyond the first commitment period.
SAUDI ARABIA said he expected a negotiating text for separate draft decisions on FCCC 4.8 and 4.9, and on Protocol Article 3.14, by Monday 12 June.
FINLAND said the mechanisms must be transparent and reliable and not be a tool for printing "forged money" for environmental credits.
MOROCCO and ARGENTINA stressed the need for project approval by both partner governments.
CHINA stressed the importance of predictability of finance and scaling up REDD+ finance, especially from public sources.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged an ambitious and comprehensive agreement at COP 16.
He noted the AOSIS protocol is contained in A/AC.237/L.23 and the German elements paper is A/AC.237/L.23/Add.1.
Burkina Faso, for LDCs, and the AFRICAN GROUP supported categorization of countries.
Sinks/LULUCF: AUSTRALIA and others said sinks can contribute to a better outcome for the environment by lowering the cost of abatement action.
SENEGAL said that CDM reform is critical for developing countries, particularly in Africa, noting that so far they have benefited very little from the mechanism.
The US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA stated that this agenda item is limited to mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, requested that preambular language on “the careful design of policies and measures” be moved to the operational text.
INDIA recommended definitions on transfer and acquisition.
MEXICO encouraged an exercise to put provisions currently in part 3 into either the parts on the agreement or on COP decisions.
JAPAN, supported by AUSTRALIA, and opposed by TUVALU, said Article 3.4 should be applied from the first commitment period.
\t\tAustralia, for the Umbrella Group, supported the Bali roadmap and \t\tprogress on technological cooperation and deforestation issues.
The US called for the TEMs e2 80 99 review in 2016.
JAPAN submitted two papers relating to Articles 3.3 and 3.4 containing items to be examined and supporting the work schedule agreed at SBSTA-8.
 Expressing regret for the situation, the Gambia, for LDCs, supported by Guyana, for GRULAC, the EU, the US, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed that the COP Presidency preside over the ADP until matters concerning the election of its Bureau are resolved.
BARBADOS underscored that 99% of people dying from climate-related events live in developing countries, and, with the GAMBIA, urged Qatar and Saudi Arabia to revisit their position.
On modeling, PORTUGAL noted that models are an indicative tool, but cannot prove anything.
Future decisions and processes: On future decisions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14, SWITZERLAND said it preferred one decision on both, while SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and other developing countries supported separate consideration and decisions, as Article 3.14 relates only to responsibilities of Annex I Parties.
CHILE, for Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama and Peru, noted changing national circumstances and the need for incentives for developing countries to move to a low-carbon growth model.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and the EU called for avoiding duplication of reference to the need to deepen understanding.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BOLIVIA, called for agreement on a subset of goals before agreement on temperature increase and stabilization, highlighting goals for technology and finance, and the need for clarity on how much financing developed countries will provide in the short- and medium-term.
The EU, with Canada, stressed that the Protocol calls for Annex I countries to “strive” to minimize impacts, that the objective was to figure out how best to “strive” through the collection and processing of information, and that such information collection would require efforts by both developed and developing countries.
JAPAN said the paper demonstrates the negative legal consequences of a gap, which could also present negative environmental consequences.
ARGENTINA described their proposal for the establishment of an adaptation fund and a mitigation fund under the Convention to be managed by two executive bodies accountable to the COP: one for finance and technology for adaptation; and the other for finance and technology for mitigation.
The EU, with Germany and Switzerland, suggested also referring to resource use efficiency or “material substitution,” for example in the construction sector, and called for inserting language on the percentage of electricity demand in the building sector.
The EU lamented that the proposed agenda did not recognize specific issues that the AWG-LCA was tasked by COP 17 to take forward in 2012.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for a rule-based framework and robust MRV for any new mechanisms, and stressed that emission reduction targets must be primarily achieved by domestic means.
Following a query from JAPAN on the funding for CGE meetings, the US said she was surprised to hear that funding came from the core budget, and that she could not agree to the text without further consultations.
Open-ended Task Group on Election Procedures Co-Chair David Warrilow (UK) highlighted the need for discussions on the replacement of Bureau members, the nominations committee, size of the Bureau, and using UNFCCC rules as a model.
 The US stressed that the Berlin Mandate does not preclude emissions budgets.
The delay was \t\treportedly caused by differences between the AOSIS and Saudi Arabia over \t\tquestions such as a reference to the lowest stabilization scenario of \t\t450 parts per million (ppm) analyzed by the IPCC.
Saint Lucia, supported by AILAC, opposed, stressing the long-term temperature goal should be in the agreement.
AUSTRALIA presented its diagrammatic submission on a compliance procedure focused on Protocol Article 3.1 (greenhouse gas reduction and limitation commitments).
 \t\tAustria, speaking on behalf of the EU, underscored the 2oC \t\ttemperature target, noting that a decrease in emissions of 15-50% was \t\trequired by 2050.
NORWAY called for a broader climate change regime.
Sierra Leone, for a number of members of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, expressed preference for a five-year commitment period that would better enable considering new scientific results, and highlighted the need for clear rules to ensure environmental integrity.
On the structure of future discussions, the EU supported an item-by-item consideration of possible outstanding methodological issues outlined in decision 2/CP.13, paragraph 7(a).
GHANA called for expeditious funding from the GEF and noted that the GEF’s actions depend on decisions of the COP and not the reverse.
On the AOSIS proposal, Nauru, for AOSIS, explained their submission concentrates on expanding the technical process post-2015, including: more effective and efficient TEMs through advance notice and increased interaction; regularly updated papers following TEMs; invitation of submissions by organizations at all levels with experience in implementing elements discussed in the TEMs; and ministerial engagement in workstream 2.
 \t\tResponding to questions from NORWAY, \t\tBARBADOS, the EU, SWITZERLAND and LIBYA, Haites explained that the \t\tSecretariat ef bf bds report uses carbon capture and storage investment \t\tprojections from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and agreed that a \t\tglobal carbon price would help in creating a global market for new \t\ttechnologies.
The EU supported a phased-in approach.
Co-Chair Fadhel Lari introduced the Co-Chairs 92 draft conclusions as well as proposals from the EU and G-77/China.
CHINA, the EU and the US debated at length proposed language on methods for and calculation of an outcome of the contribution of AIJ projects, with China arguing for removal of "methods."
INDIA expressed concerns with sectoral approaches.
The LDCs urged recognition of LDCs’ and SIDS’ special circumstances.
CANADA expressed hope that progress would be made in the future.
  Calling support a “mutual responsibility,” NORWAY said support would always be forthcoming if it resulted in action.
BRAZIL said that basis for the Secretariat\'s work on guidelines could be found in the approach paper submitted by the G-77 and China.
SENEGAL highlighted difficulties in providing evidence of even positive consequences.
 ARGENTINA supported inclusion of agricultural measures and "no regrets" policies suggested by the IPCC in a revised list and ultimately in a protocol.
COP-1 will consider and take "appropriate action" on the draft protocol submitted by Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, and the proposals for further elements of a protocol submitted by Germany.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, questioned the role of the AGF, with many developing countries stressing the need for new, adequate and predictable funding from developed countries’ public sources.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA said they could not move forward with the text.
 The Czech Republic and Argentina supported negotiations on a draft protocol that should use the AOSIS protocol and the German elements paper as a starting point.
She explained that it would involve a joint GEF/UNDP/UNEP programme with a budget of US$60.2 million.
NIGERIA recalled that Bolin had said, during SBSTA, that there were uncertainties inherent in the SAR.
SOUTH AFRICA said access to technology and transfer of technical know-how would play a crucial role in meeting the energy implications of moving towards sustainable development.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for strengthening the mandate of the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change (NWP) to address poverty alleviation, food security and reduce vulnerabilities.
JAPAN highlighted the importance of long-term goals and the significance of emissions from developing countries.
On next steps in the climate change process, SAMOA, for AOSIS, said that once work on the BAPA is completed, Parties should review commitments under this regime, and suggested that they be stronger and more extensive.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, underlined the importance of a second commitment period that ensures environmental integrity, takes account of the rules-based regime and limits access to the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments.
CHINA said attempts by some Parties to get developing countries to 93meaningfully participate 94 were destroying confidence-building efforts between developing and developed countries.
In February, the Council approved a US$30 million work programme, which includes US$10 million for climate change activities.
GHANA said a shared vision should address all elements of the Bali Action Plan, and not be temporarily limited in terms of actors and actions.
INDIA preferred open-ended membership, which should be limited according to the number of experts each country could send.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by GUATEMALA, expressed willingness to start negotiating immediately, irrespective of the label attached to the format.
On response measures, SAUDI ARABIA said that the AWG-LCA workshop had been an “eye-opener” on the utmost importance of the topic to all countries.
BRAZIL noted that the long-term global goal, defined in terms of a global temperature increase, should be updated, taking into account scientific developments.
The EU, the US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND opposed.
 \t\tThe REPUBLIC OF KOREA \t\tidentified the AWG 92s work as a solid foundation for post-2012 \t\tcommitments.
MEXICO called for workshops to ensure work is progressing in all bodies on aspects included in the Paris Agreement preambular paragraph on, inter alia, human rights, indigenous peoples, gender equality and intergenerational equity.
NORWAY differentiated between a tax on energy and a tax on carbon, and opposed proposals that could result in “trade wars.” The AFRICAN GROUP underscored geographical representation, direct access, country-driven approaches, and the legally binding nature of financing commitments.
GEORGIA outlined the support it needs for technology transfer, development of financial schemes for priority economic niches, climate smart agriculture, and research in land-use change.
The EU suggested that the role of the EB lies in the accreditation and random checking of Operational Entities.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for: a higher level of ambition; a five-year commitment period; swiftly resolving the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs; and restricting the flexibility mechanisms to parties entering a second commitment period.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, advocated a single decision on INDCs and the elements of a negotiating text.
INDIA, supported by THAILAND and IRAN, noted that the improved guidelines should not exceed the UNFCCC 92s reporting requirements.
The AFRICAN GROUP noted an improved understanding and acceptance of the need to address the impact of response measures, and suggested a broadening of its scope.
GHANA \t\tunderlined the importance of prioritizing countries ef bf bd technology \t\tassessments.
\t\tMicronesia, for AOSIS, emphasized data collection and technologies for \t\tadaptation.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the principle of \t\tcommon but differentiated responsibilities.
The EU, Switzerland \t\tand others also supported exclusion, but said they could consider \t\tallowing them if provisions effectively prevented perverse incentives.
The US, with Canada, Australia and Japan, indicated that work on response measures should not hamper effective mitigation efforts.
BURKINA FASO emphasized obligations related to developing countries, specifically on technology transfer.
 \t\tThe EU called for a roadmap from Bali leading to a global comprehensive \t\tpost-2012 agreement in 2009, and a work programme linked to the AWG and \t\tthe review of the Kyoto Protocol under Article 9.
With the US, AUSTRALIA said that matching of action and support is best discussed in the context of finance.
FRANCE \t\tannounced a meeting addressing the future climate change regime to be \t\theld in February 2007.
NORWAY said a firm compliance regime is essential to ensure that the Protocol and its mechanisms will work.
BRAZIL, CHINA, MALAYSIA, and TUVALU stressed that the Marrakesh Accords catered to small-scale energy projects.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small of Island States (AOSIS), and Honduras, for the Central American Integration System (SICA), called for scaling up climate action.
Delegates accepted a proposal by the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) to integrate text on special treatment for LDCs into the adverse effects section of the draft decision.
NEPAL underscored the importance of capacity-building and further research to mitigate the effects of climate change.
VENEZUELA, supported by Angola, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested eliminating all content that is being discussed under the Montreal Protocol or the Kyoto Protocol, such as new gases.
Switzerland, the EU, Saint Lucia, Fiji, and others supported these additions, and the paragraph was agreed as presented.
The G-77/CHINA, NEW ZEALAND and THAILAND stressed the need to determine the workshop 92s scope.
  On the legal form, the LDCs, AILAC and the Marshall Islands suggested a legally-binding protocol.
BRAZIL underscored that the Kyoto Protocol constitutes a “package” of obligations and beneficial mechanisms and that parties cannot “pick and choose” from them.
NEW ZEALAND questioned whether the details of REDD needed to be negotiated for Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA said that an Australian expert will be nominated for the review teams.
The CG-11 stressed the importance of capacity building, in particular as Protocol ratification progresses.
The AFRICAN GROUP said any future legal outcome should be a further articulation of commitments reflected in the Convention, such as financing commitments to developing countries, appropriate burden sharing, inclusion of operational tools and mechanisms, and acceptance of all sources of finance.
The EU and NORWAY called for a 93shared \t\tvision 94 to reach the \t\t \t\tUNFCCC 92s ultimate \t\tobjective.
BRAZIL and SOUTH AFRICA underscored the need for international incentives for developing country action and the recognition of existing actions.
He said that financial support would be provided for countries that are not capable of meeting the cost, and said that the “sub-elements” of the broad framework would be different, for instance, for the LDCs and for developing countries that have more capacity and responsibility.
Peru, for the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Countries (GRULAC), called for the prioritization of actions for funding technology transfer and capacity building for climate change adaptation, and expressed appreciation for the appointment of Christiana Figueres as the incoming UNFCCC Executive Secretary.
The EU, SAMOA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN preferred the original formulation, or variations on this formulation.
The US outlined a compromise following the general structure of the FAO definition, with flexibility regarding key parameters, where Parties would choose a single value from a range of accepted values.
NORWAY suggested that reference levels and MRV should be considered following Copenhagen and, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA and CAMBODIA, highlighted the importance of a phased approach.
IRAN noted the unresponsiveness of the GEF Secretariat to its inquiries on why project support was not received.
TUVALU said exceptions would be present under option B that would introduce hot air into the system.
The EU requested text emerging from Bangkok in order to ensure a clear mandate from capitals for Doha.
The US expressed hope for the resolution of pending issues on non-Annex I communications to ensure budgetary resources on this topic.
  Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: transparency and inclusiveness; limited parallel meetings; and the APA providing guidance prior to establishing contact groups and spin-offs.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), welcomed progress under research and systematic observation and looked forward to the report of the High-Level Taskforce on the Global Framework for Climate Services.
In October 1997, as AGBM-8 began, US President Bill Clinton included a call for "meaningful participation" by developing countries in the negotiating position he announced in Washington.
\t\tParties deliberated the extent to which the EGTT has the authority to \t\tprioritize activities, and agreed to a proposal by CANADA to request the \t\tEGTT to identify possible joint research programmes.
Given the concerns raised, the EU suggested deleting the paragraph.
SWITZERLAND summarized spin-off discussions on sources, highlighting a common view that sources could not be limited to a single option.
FINLAND identified the revenue from the EU-ETS as its source of financial support.
On behalf of the Western European and Others Group (WEOG), AUSTRIA recalled that the Rules of Procedure allow a second term and called for making use of the experience of WEOG\'s candidate for Vice-Chair.
AWG-KP Chair Dovland noted parallel discussions under the AWG-LCA and, supported by JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, suggested discussing the addition of new mechanisms through an “academic” seminar in Bangkok.
The US, THAILAND, PERU and TUVALU announced their signature to the Kyoto Protocol.
It also notes that NAPA implementation should promote the integration of adaptation concerns into the development process of LDCs and that the LDC Fund needs to be complemented by other funding sources, such as development assistance.
He explained that the EU will \t\tsoon start its own emissions trading scheme and urged non-ratifying \t\tdeveloped countries to make comparable mitigation efforts during the \t\tfirst commitment period.
Chair Zammit Cutajar noted that the discussion had repeated issues that have been discussed before, such as the idea that “the form follows function.” He noted, however, that some interventions, such as the statement by the US, seemed to “link the form and function.” He also emphasized that parties continue to express diverging views on what is “legally-binding,” and said all these differences “make summing up difficult.” He noted that both Venezuela and the EU had “in their different ways” proposed to link the outcomes of the two negotiating tracks, and encouraged parties to speak to each other.
SUDAN noted common interest in raising the profile of adaptation.
PERU, speaking for a number of countries, with EGYPT and COLOMBIA, opposed a new classification of developing countries to assess vulnerability.
Much of the discussion centered on a proposal from the EU for a 15% cut in a "basket" of three greenhouse gases by the year 2010 compared to 1990 levels.
AOSIS raised concerns over adopting the GPG without sufficient time for its examination, and also over the practicality of considering the GPG for the UNFCCC and Protocol separately.
The G-77/CHINA, the LDCs, AOSIS, CHINA and SAINT LUCIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, urged anchoring the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the 2015 agreement.
CHINA insisted that Article 7\'s reference to "the" Parties does not include "all" Parties and warned "the North" that pushing too hard risks complete failure.
 The Chair called on AGBM to consider the submissions on general commitments and guiding objectives for P&amp;Ms. SAMOA called for a coordination mechanism to assist Annex I Parties in implementing their commitments, as proposed in the AOSIS protocol.
CHINA supported including a section on basic principles, particularly on common but differentiated responsibilities.
She highlighted that supported planning processes for LDCs and SIDS should be the primary driver for fund dispersal and called for improving the MRV process, especially related to additionality of funding.
AUSTRIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US and \t\tCANADA supported keeping the figure because it contains relevant \t\tinformation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, expressed concern on the lack of available resources for the Adaptation Committee, LDCs Fund (LDCF) and Adaptation Fund.
On 22 May, US lawmakers sought to exempt US military operations from the Protocol by proposing an amendment to next year\'s military authorization bill that "prohibits the restriction of armed forces under the Kyoto Protocol."
CHINA said the agreement should include developed countries’ commitments to support adaptation.
COLOMBIA urged parties to negotiate in good faith, stating that “tactics of deviation” to delay the process are not acceptable given that the survival of vulnerable populations is at stake.
NEW ZEALAND clarified that the proposal would support the work of the AWG-LCA and result in a decision at COP 17.
Jato Sillah, Minister of Forestry and the Environment, the Gambia, for LDCs, emphasized the plight of the poorest nations that are suffering from extreme weather events and internal migrations due to the effects of climate change, wondering how some parties can propose delaying action until 2015 or later.
The AFRICAN GROUP and PARAGUAY urged steps to bring about a better regional distribution of projects.
BRAZIL also proposed that the 2015 agreement include review provisions on aggregate progress towards the global target, as well as provisions concerning individual levels of ambition in the section on compliance.
CANADA said guidelines should be finalized for recommendation to COP-2 and for early application by some Parties.
The UK suggested reaching out to countries that have not contributed funds in order to identify potential barriers.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), emphasized that the AWG-LCA’s work should be based on the principles and provisions of the Convention and the BAP, and should not re-classify or differentiate amongst developing countries.
The US said text on a shared vision should be concise and decisional, derived from the building blocks, and include a long-term global goal for emission reductions.
THAILAND said the CDM should not be the sole means of technology transfer.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA highlighted decision text that establishes a SBSTA work programme on a land-based approach.
The US and EU underscored the importance of the third GEF replenishment in supporting developing country work in this regard.
SAUDI ARABIA recommended holding joint sessions with other bodies where appropriate.
He said the methodological issues could be agreed upon later, while BRAZIL stressed environmental integrity, opposed relaxing supplementarity and warned against deferring difficult methodological decisions until after the political decision to create a mechanism.
On commitments, SOUTH AFRICA and INDIA emphasized developed countries e2 80 99 obligation to provide capacity-building support to developing countries.
On tools to assist developing countries in assessing and dealing with potential consequences, NEW ZEALAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, noted that the tools mentioned in the paragraph appeared to be a random selection of available tools.
Supported by Switzerland and others, the EU stressed that it is not possible for Annex I countries to set targets without first knowing the rules.
 \t\t\tThe UK asked that an explicit link be made between increases in \t\t\tcarbon dioxide emissions and carbon dioxide concentrations in the \t\t\tatmosphere.
SWITZERLAND suggested that their proposals to establish technical advisory panels, along with prioritized topics for work, could be addressed in upcoming session.
Venezuela, for the LMDCs, said the guidance must be in the context of the Paris Agreement and the Convention, and, with ARGENTINA, called for inclusion of information on support.
SAUDI ARABIA and LIBYA called for inclusion of the G-77/China submissions.
The EU recalled its proposal for a framework of action on adaptation.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, mentioned four necessary elements for the agenda: structure and possible elements for the contents of the Protocol; methodology on drafting the Protocol; consideration of the inputs received; and, further work for the AGBM, such as setting deadlines for proposed inputs on objectives and time horizons.
CANADA commended the GEF on its adaptation strategy.
Many parties, including AOSIS, Australia, Norway, Japan, AILAC, the EU, Singapore and Mexico, identified the need to build on existing institutions.
The African Group, supported by the EU, said efforts by other multilateral bodies should be recognized under the Convention, for accountability and transparency purposes.
POLAND said there should be an equal number of Protocol Annex B and non-Annex B Parties, and AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, added that the composition would depend on the article under review.
NEW ZEALAND said agreement on common accounting rules will not be possible in Doha, calling for a pragmatic approach.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a compilation of non-Annex I parties’ national communications; enhanced capacity building support; and continuation of the Consultative Group of Experts on non-Annex I national communications (CGE) with an expanded mandate.
He stressed the US commitment to \t\tcollaboration and 93relentlessly advancing clean energy research.
AOSIS and TUVALU opposed discussing impacts of response measures under adaptation, noting the issue is addressed under mitigation.
CANADA noted that the chairs of the LDCs and the LDC Expert Group (LEG) were not present.
KUWAIT highlighted the value of developing technologies that capture carbon dioxide.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern with “fast tracking” some issues like agriculture while other issues remain unresolved, emphasizing that this is contrary to the Bali Action Plan (BAP).
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported adopting the improved guidelines at COP-10, while the G-77/China preferred COP-9.
Maldives stressed transparency and called for a synthesis of biennial submissions by developed countries by COP 24 to track progress towards the US$100 billion goal.
EGYPT, noting that less than two weeks of negotiating time remain, proposed elucidating general principles for further discussion following COP 15.
The US also called for a shared vision that is guided by science and contains clear milestones, and identified the need to establish a structure for significant financial support for developing countries, and for an effective use of adaptation resources focusing on the most vulnerable countries.
UGANDA expressed concerns about suggestions that developing countries take actions at their own cost.
CANADA, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern with the manner in which the issue of linkages between compliance and eligibility to participate in the mechanisms was dealt with in the mechanisms contact group Thursday evening.
The EU, \t\tsupported by INDIA, proposed Parties ef bf bd submissions on issues that should \t\tbe considered.
On global and regional assessments, SAUDI ARABIA clarified that these are complementary to individual assessments of impacts by developed countries and would examine classes of policies and the resulting consequences.
The G-77/CHINA expressed disappointment, stating that the Group has spent 15 years trying to make the GEF as an operating entity more responsive to the concerns of developing countries.
INDIA underscored the need to focus on the deliverables in Cancun.
AUSTRALIA underscored that INDCs should reflect efforts parties are making unilaterally.
The US proposed that adaptation communications be “high-level” summaries of NAPs and information related to existing vehicles of adaptation communication.
BOLIVIA highlighted her country’s proposal for a universal declaration on the rights of Mother Earth, stressing the need for humans to live in harmony with nature.
Switzerland, supported by Norway, the European Union (EU), and Belize, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), proposed a joint session between SBSTA and APA Agenda Item 5 (transparency framework) at COP 24, stressing the need for coherence.
  On Friday morning, Chair Owen-Jones distributed a new draft text that included a new annex based on proposals by the US, AOSIS and Indonesia.
CHILE said climate change cannot be solved by industrial countries alone and noted that some developing countries’ emissions are reaching considerable levels.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and AUSTRALIA called for discussion of credits from new market mechanisms.
Regarding the Expert Review Teams (ERTs), the EU said the ERTs 92 reports would be automatically submitted to the compliance committee through the Secretariat.
A number of speakers, including the EU, THE GAMBIA, JAPAN, SWEDEN, SYRIA, CROATIA, NEW ZEALAND, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EGYPT, NEPAL, SPAIN, GHANA and the G-77/CHINA, stressed that: active leadership to prevent global warming must come from developed country Parties; domestic action must provide the main means for meeting commitments to combat climate change; and flexibility mechanisms were supplemental and their use must be subject to strict rules of accountability and compliance.
 The decision adopted by the Plenary (FCCC/CP/1996/L.16) expresses concern over the slow pace of technology transfer, and requests the Secretariat to: enhance progress reports on transfer of environmentally sound technologies (ESTs) based on information in national communications; give high priority to development of a survey of initial technology needs of non-Annex I Parties, to be presented at SBSTA-4; initiate action, taking account of the Climate Technology Initiative of the OECD to develop databases on ESTs; and prepare reports on adaptation technology and on know-how conducive to mitigating and adapting to climate change and to prepare a roster of experts.
The EU stressed: delinking emissions from economic growth; least-cost mitigation actions addressing all drivers of emissions; absolute economy-wide emission reduction targets for those most capable; and scope and stringency reflected in a “spectrum of commitments.”
Switzerland, supported by the US, preferred replacing “unilateral” with “unconditional.” Switzerland also suggested specifying that parties with less capability may also communicate enhanced efforts contingent on provision of support.
The objectives should be binding, with some flexibility for economies in transition, and would fit into the protocol structure proposed by the EU.
NORWAY inquired about the role of operational entities in the validation and pre-registration of project proposals, noting that the Executive Board may not be able to carry out this task.
GERMANY said the President of the COP has raised this issue at every Bureau meeting since COP-1 and used other opportunities for discussion.
The EU identified two elements affecting the level of Annex I aggregate emission reductions: efforts by countries that are not parties to the Protocol as they affect the global level of ambition; and the “overachievement” of their targets by a number of Protocol parties in the first commitment period.
There was consensus on the value of the event, but UGANDA, supported by MALDIVES, GHANA, and others suggested that its technical bent might have been better directed at an audience of actual modellers, and expressed preference for a pre-sessional event instead of taking up two days of negotiating time.
CANADA highlighted inconsistencies in the Bonn Agreements described by COP-6 President Pronk as a "clash" between the purpose of text on the mechanisms and the text on compliance.
On the way forward, INDIA suggested that all submissions be included in an options paper.
NIGERIA identified a “strategic imbalance” in the negotiations, with mitigation discussions far ahead of those on adaptation.
OPEC said implementing the Kyoto Protocol would lead to dramatic economic losses for OPEC Parties, and called for equitable distribution of the costs of climate change mitigation.
ADP Co-Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) highlighted informal notes on workstream 1 (the 2015 Agreement) and workstream 2 (pre-2020 ambition) (ADP.2015.10-11.InformalNote), and a technical paper produced by the Secretariat identifying closely related concepts, duplications and areas for streamlining (ADP.2015.12.InformalNote).
The EU preferred retaining reference to the comprehensive approach, and added that its deletion would require explicit listing of the sectors in which mitigation activities must be carried out.
The US noted that the balance in the paragraph noting the divergent views did not represent SBSTA’s discussion.
NORWAY, the EU and SWITZERLAND commended the consolidations as useful while noting that, wherever new language is introduced, they reserve the right to come back to text.
The US proposed adding also economic co-benefits.
Parties noted that the quantitative implications of the surplus from the first commitment period were significant, but also limited to few parties, namely the EU, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
COLOMBIA and VENEZUELA recommended that CDM projects, inter alia, produce real emissions reductions and, with COSTA RICA, accord with host country wishes.
BOLIVIA expressed disappointment at the lack of conclusion, highlighting the “abuse of mechanisms” by developed countries, saying they are transferring emission reduction responsibilities to developing countries and using the flexibility mechanisms to generate profits in their own territories.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to ensure that climate finance and investments deliver effective outcomes.
The developing countries consistently rejected this idea, but other OECD countries supported the notion that the more industrialized developing countries should accept additional responsibility for their GHG emissions.
GEORGIA called for analysis of national and regional impacts, saying mitigation measures would not otherwise be possible.
TAJIKISTAN, with KYRGYZSTAN, called for text taking into account the special concerns of mountainous developing countries.
MEXICO supported an agreement that allows for efficient adjustments without a ratification process.
Canada, Norway, \t\tthe EU and Switzerland, opposed by many developing countries and LDCs, \t\tsuggested deleting the text and said that more time is needed to develop \t\tthe criteria for the LDC Fund before projects can be financed.
The US, supported by INDIA, CANADA and JAPAN, said the list should acknowledge the need for open and effective communications and that high priority should be given to regular joint meetings between SBSTA and the IPCC.
The US supported sharing information on evaluation techniques for selecting appropriate P&amp;Ms. SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/ CHINA, highlighted the need to minimize the impact of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms on developing countries, while observing that it had yet to develop a position on the compilation document.
New Zealand underlined the vulnerability of SIDS and noted threats to island cultures.
The EU said it did not e2 80 9cimagine e2 80 9d the ADP continuing beyond Paris.
ALGERIA noted that not only the non-paper but also other documents, including the revised negotiating text (FCCC/AWGLCA/2009/INF.1) and the reordered and consolidated negotiating text (FCCC/AWGLCA/2009/INF.2), should be the basis for discussions in Barcelona, and Facilitator Flores confirmed that this would be the case.
The G-77/CHINA expressed alarm at the low levels of financing to the Fund accrued through the sale of CERs.
The G-77/CHINA said several activities related to LDCs outlined in decision 2/CP.7 (capacity building in developing countries) could be undertaken before completing NAPAs.
INDIA said the carbon price should not be fixed and defining CDM projects’ contribution to sustainable development should remain the host country’s prerogative, while UGANDA responded that sustainable development objectives of the CDM should be assessed.
BRAZIL emphasized that the workshop should address supplementarity, saying that if the current level of ambition is maintained and the use of mechanisms scaled up, then most of the emission reduction efforts would be transferred to developing countries.
On Thursday, 4 November, the COP adopted the draft decision recommended by SBI (FCCC/CP/1999/L.11) and the addendum containing the guidelines (FCCC/CP/1999/L.11/Add.1) after CHINA amended the text to state that the purpose of the technical review is to assist 93Annex I Parties 94 instead of 93all Parties 94 in gaining experience relevant to the preparation of guidelines related to Protocol Articles 5 (methodology), 7 (communication) and 8 (review of information).
The US BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE supported domestic and early actions to address climate change now, a prompt start of the CDM, and translation of environmental objectives into business opportunities.
On Saturday evening, following further consultations, the Group agreed to Saudi Arabia’s proposal to add reference to “adaptation with mitigation co-benefits.” The Group also agreed to the UK’s suggestion to insert “infrastructure and lock-in as appropriate” and to refer to barriers when addressing sector specific policies, financing and enabling conditions, as suggested by Switzerland.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented some parties’ lack of commitment to the Kyoto Protocol’s future and requested that the AWG-KP Chair provide the opportunity for an exchange of views on this issue.
SAUDI ARABIA identified two layers of flexibility: systematic application; and flexibility embedded in current guidelines.
On purpose (Article 2), VENEZUELA supported “stabilization” of GHG emissions and, with SAUDI ARABIA and PAKISTAN, opposed the inclusion of “decarbonization” and “carbon neutrality.” KYRGYZSTAN asked to include vulnerability of mountains in the preambular section.
The EU underscored that the text before parties shows that the AWG-KP will contribute to the balanced outcome Doha is expected to deliver.
CHINA noted that communications from Annex II Parties failed to elaborate on technology transfer and said the provisions on technology transfer in the Convention have not been satisfactorily implemented.
In a section of the draft conclusions requesting Parties not using the common reporting format for certain sectoral background data tables on land use, land-use change and forestry to specify alternative formats, CHINA added a specific reference noting that this request included Annex I Parties.
The US said the amendment could be addressed when commitments for the second budget period were considered.
PAKISTAN said efforts must be consistent with national priorities and ensure food security.
VENEZUELA said the US amendments would reduce its reluctance regarding Option C. URUGUAY said the US amendments sought sustainable development.
The US recalled his proposal of Monday, 10 June for an additional item to be included on the SBI agenda regarding transparency of the UNFCCC process, noting that the modified proposal was now entitled "effective participation in the UNFCCC process."
The US asked the G-77/CHINA if the intention was only to confine discussion of the second review to that agenda item at COP-4; and about the timing of the next and subsequent reviews.
On membership in constituencies, the US \t\traised concern regarding the criteria for membership to the Research and \t\tIndependent NGOs (RINGOs).
 On temperature adjustments, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, INDIA and JAPAN favored unadjusted emissions reporting in inventories and a separate method for treating adjustments.
NEPAL called for extending the work programme for at least five years.
The EU stated that a comprehensive climate agreement is the best option for minimizing consequences.
CANADA \t\tsaid adaptation to climate change is a global problem that requires \t\tresolute international initiatives.
Angola, for the LDCs, requested that the tool be made available in early July, stressing the need for sufficient preparation time for the next ADP meeting.
On Saturday, 18 November, Bainimarama updated parties on seven additional deposited instruments of acceptance, by Belgium, Finland, Germany, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, and the UK, noting 54 additional instruments are required for the entry into force of the Doha Amendment.
Tuvalu, on behalf of AOSIS, and the EU, China, Norway, Peru and Malaysia opposed additional activities during the first commitment period.
CHINA expressed concern that parties are not shouldering their respective historical responsibilities.
 GREECE: Dimitri Lalas on behalf of Elissavet Papazoe, Deputy Minister of the Environment, supported the adoption of a binding protocol with ambitious targets through 2020 and noted the need for international cooperation in achieving targets based on equity principles that address social and economic impacts.
POLAND, for the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, said the treatment of non-compliance should not be based on the Parties, but on the nature of the commitment.
On limitation of debits and credits, JAPAN said the option of no limitation of credits should be retained.
The EU submitted a proposal to re-structure the section on national communications.
COLOMBIA said all developing countries are equally vulnerable to climate change and opposed differentiation among them.
BANGLADESH said that the SBSTA could use various international organizations but should confirm the objectivity of any analysis provided.
 IRAN’s proposal opposes CO2 taxes, energy taxes and new commitments for non-Annex I countries.
 Papua New Guinea stated that the biggest disappointment was the waiting game that developing States must play in adoption of the AOSIS protocol.
Maintaining that the Kyoto Protocol works, BOLIVIA presented figures demonstrating that the EU, Japan and other countries reduced their emissions between 1990 and 2010.
 This item was first taken up in the SBSTA plenary and subsequently in informal consultations co-facilitated by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives).
GRENADA noted that some parties have a “2012 vision” rather than a 2020 vision and supported consideration of the survival of, and the impact on, the most vulnerable.
SINGAPORE, noting that the core element of work at this session is to agree on “numbers,” highlighted the importance of understanding the aggregate effects, and identifying the shortfall, of the Annex I parties’ pledges contained in the Copenhagen Accord.
This was \t\t\topposed by the US, Japan and Canada, which preferred it to report to \t\t\tthe SBSTA, with certain relevant items being forwarded to the SBI.
The US, supported by JAPAN, said the action was inappropriate and a statement in the record was insufficient.
The EU supported a two-day workshop on transparency.
Additional elements were proposed by Annex I Parties, including SWITZERLAND, the EU, the US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
Yemen, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, India, Turkey, the EU and many others applauded the transparent and inclusive process that the Mexican Presidency had followed.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG: attached high priority to the multilateral assessment working group; urged the SED to start discussing detailed review methodologies; and called for discussions on the frequency of COP sessions, including the possibility of biennial COPs after 2015.
JAPAN proposed referring to technologies that are "suitable to local needs," while the EU suggested "technologies that are appropriate to the situation in the respective country."
AILAC and CHILE called for a registry of adaptation actions.
The US stated that the document failed to mentioned an administrative official whose services were supplied by the US, and CANADA pledged to contribute C$65,000.
On renewable energy, CANADA, with the \t\tG-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, argued that no specific technology should \t\tbe promoted.
NORWAY said more experience on the use of guidelines was necessary before a final decision is taken.
Others made alternative proposals, with TUVALU suggesting “information on how parties have reported on fairness and ambition.” Interested parties agreed to work on a new proposal.
On the role of the COP/MOP, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CHINA, opposed by SOUTH AFRICA, proposed that it have a triggering role as well as the competence to decide on the findings of the compliance body.
 JAPAN supported the format and content of the MOU.
Co-Chair Lometo emphasized the vulnerability of SIDS.
The EU, Canada and Japan, opposed by the G-77/ China, said they could accept the Co-Chairs 92 text.
The PHILIPPINES and CHINA recommended consideration of the G-77/China capacity-building draft decision.
 SAUDI ARABIA stressed assessment of the economic impacts of possible protocols on all Parties, especially developing countries.
The US, supported by the EU and COLOMBIA, suggested a summary for policymakers.
VENEZUELA proposed adding a reference to assisting the COP/MOP-1 in its consideration of the Protocol Articles.
On decision text adopting the improved guidelines, the EU, supported by the US and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, asked for text noting the need for review of the guidelines.
AOSIS and CHINA supported strengthening the mandate of the Adaptation Committee to oversee UNFCCC adaptation efforts.
PORTUGAL said \t\this country is already implementing ambitious policies, including carbon \t\ttaxation measures.
On a   for emission reductions, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, said that minimizing impacts of climate change on SIDS and the LDCs should be the benchmark, and proposed global emission reductions of 85% by 2050 from 1990 levels, with peaking by 2015, complemented by reductions by Annex I countries of more than 95% by 2050 from 1990 levels.
SWITZERLAND, the US, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and NEW ZEALAND supported using the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft text as the basis for discussion.
These included negotiations on the LDC Fund, \t\tthe SCCF, submission of national communications from non-Annex I \t\tParties, and Protocol Article 2.3 (adverse effects of policies and \t\tmeasures).
The EU said a Cancun outcome could include inscription of reduction commitments, confirmation of the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol architecture and a work plan to move forward.
The EU, BRAZIL, JAPAN, CUBA and others identified the need for a long-term global goal.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA opposed this proposal, stating that agreement by consensus based on “the lowest common denominator” is “gravely negligent” given the seriousness of climate change impacts.
 AUSTRALIA and PANAMA supported AIJ workshops and a uniform reporting format that is not onerous for developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA proposed bracketing the entire text.
The US underscored the importance of discussing the \t\tconnection between vulnerability, impacts and adaptation, while the UK \t\tcalled for achieving a balance between the three elements.
The G-77/CHINA, PAKISTAN, the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and INDIA expressed reservations with the Mexican proposal.
The G-77/CHINA proposal calls for: ensuring that P&amp;Ms have no adverse socio-economic impacts on developing countries; establishing a concrete compensation mechanism for damage in developing countries arising from implementation of response measures; and setting QELROS within specified time frames, such as 2005, 2010 and 2020.
On the board of the new fund, a number of developing countries insisted that it refer to representation for SIDS and LDCs.
SOUTH AFRICA supported an adaptation technical and knowledge platform from the Mexico-AILAC proposal.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, stated their understanding of the decision, including that reference to the Warsaw Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the preambular paragraph, and the reference to “inter alia” in paragraph 2 of the decision, represented “a clear intention” that the 2015 agreement will “properly, effectively and progressively address loss and damage.”
SINGAPORE suggested that the intersessional meeting be a continuation of the Bonn session.
The US stressed that capacity building should be results-based and designed to produce clearly identified results.
NEW ZEALAND questioned the aspects of establishing an action plan as well as a compliance fund, since these would remove the stringency of the consequences by extending the period of non-compliance and adding complexity.
CANADA proposed a follow-up process that brings together \t\tall Convention parties and the various building blocks, with all major \t\temitting economies working together towards a long-term goal.
The US suggested a review after five \t\tyears.
In response to the EU, the US highlighted the ability of countries to determine their own budgets and the penalty for emission borrowing.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, with EGYPT, proposed similar consolidation for other subsections and distribution as soon as possible before Bangkok.
The UK recognized the value of an adaptation fund and technology transfer, and expressed a preference for an improved and enhanced GEF with a 50% increase in contributions.
AUSTRALIA supported stabilization at 450 ppm or less, while the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA preferred stabilization at as far below 350 ppm as possible, noting this has been supported by AOSIS and a number of vulnerable countries.
BRAZIL urged for a focus on positive incentives directed at action rather than “making things more difficult to execute,” adding that Annex I and non-Annex I countries’ pledges should be presented in different ways, and Annex I countries need to keep the Kyoto Protocol as a reference.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted nationally appropriate commitments.
The US observed that the original SYR SPM formulation referring to the rate and magnitude of e2 80 9cclimate change e2 80 9d was clearer, and the Panel agreed to this change.
SAUDI ARABIA supported a workshop addressing resilience to both climate change and response measures.
The EU supported \t\tthe establishment of a constituted body to address near and medium-term \t\ttechnology transfer activities and a decision enabling pilot project \t\tactivities and further methodological work in the context of reducing \t\temissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD).
PANAMA suggested taking advantage of the Adaptation Fund.
SOUTH AFRICA underscored that it is important to \t\thave a work programme on this issue, and to put existing knowledge to \t\tuse.
The G-77/CHINA proposed dividing paragraph 14, which addresses a channel for reporting impacts and consequences, into two parts and proposed text on establishing a permanent forum for reporting impact and consequences from policies and measures.
He emphasized that MRV for Annex I countries must be considered in tandem with international consultation and analysis for non-Annex I countries and, with CANADA, proposed a separate chapter on this.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed this strategy, stating that some of the items enumerated in Annex II are beyond the group’s mandate, as they would require amendments to the Kyoto Protocol.
SWITZERLAND, BRAZIL and IRAN supported financial penalties as a last resort.
The EU questioned how new gases would be addressed in such a scenario.
In response to a request by Co-Chair Paciornik, the G-77/CHINA agreed to discuss, consult and provide feedback.
The US stated that success of the Protocol requires the involvement of all countries.
Calling for compensation for loss and damage, BOLIVIA stressed non-market approaches, and proposed a holistic and comprehensive approach to forests.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the COP Presidency to take up the issue of 1.5 c2 b0C “with some urgency” so as to ensure a substantive agreement on the 2013-2015 review.
The EU stated that institutional capacity building in developing countries is crucial, and that technology transfer efforts should concentrate on industry, agriculture and transport sectors.
Underlining that these items have a “home” under the CMA, AUSTRALIA cautioned against duplication in attempting to conduct the necessary preparatory work.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN welcomed President Elyazghi 92s intention to consult and report back to the COP before the ministerial segment on the agenda item "second review of the adequacy of Article 4.2 (a) and (b)," and said they looked forward to a full discussion of this issue at COP-8.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, stressed that discussions under the ADP must be party-driven, fully inclusive and transparent, and that the outcome should be in accordance with equity and the CBDR principle.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), stressed that the UNFCCC should remain the central international platform to address climate change.
TURKEY supported: a new section on adaptation technologies and their transfer; moving the finance subsection to the finance chapter; and establishing executive bodies on finance and technology.
Maldives, for LDCs, urged deep emissions cuts by Annex I parties by 2020.
On conference services, the US supported contracting all services from individual or corporate contractors.
TUVALU, with the US, JAPAN and BRAZIL, questioned how REDD-plus relates to the discussions in other sub-groups.
 CANADA and the EU supported the proposed agenda, noting that it is flexible and recognizes the priorities set by delegates.
He said the EU proposal is too complicated and supported a proposal by the Chair to use three “groups” rather than annexes on objectives, common but coordinated P&amp;Ms and national P&amp;Ms.
AUSTRALIA expressed interest in talking with interested parties on areas that could be moved forward.
Regarding the paragraph on general information to be reported for activities under Protocol Article 3.3 (afforestation, deforestation, reforestation) and 3.4 (additional activities), AUSTRALIA, supported by the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU, cautioned that in many instances the guideline text is more detailed than that contained in the draft decision on LULUCF from COP-6 Part II.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed replacing "finalize" with "adopt" in the first sentence of the first paragraph referring to IPCC\'s second assessment report.
Regarding  the US requested that language on limits to adaptation be included, to which Field responded that assigning probability levels to adaptation prospects in the future was difficult.
It also contains a placeholder for discussions on compensation by developed countries for damage to African and LDC economies, and the relationship of the sub-group with the issue of adaptation.
The US noted that some issues could be addressed in an overarching section on mitigation for all parties.
The PHILIPPINES and CANADA recommended the use of no-regrets policies.
BHUTAN \t\tnoted that the present level of funding for adaptation activities was \t\tnot adequate.
The US noted that any identified policy-relevant questions should not send a wrong signal to authors that policy makers do not need a comprehensive assessment.
EGYPT and INDIA called for a \t\t \t\tClean Development Mechanism (CDM) \t\tthat will significantly impact on sustainable development in developing \t\tcountries.
She concluded that she was committed to continue work on sinks, compliance and mechanisms and promised to bring forward common EU and other groups 92 proposals on these issues.
MEXICO identified the need to take into consideration outcomes from COP 16 and 17, and consider what else needs to be done.
CHINA stressed an action-oriented outcome and further considering developing country proposals.
At the SBSTA Plenary on Friday, 6 June, Canada, supported by the Russian Federation, and opposed by the EU and G-77/China, requested that SBSTA 92s conclusions take note of Canada 92s proposal for a study on the role of trade in cleaner energy in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC and the Protocol.
The BAHAMAS expressed doubt that the technical issues could be resolved before 1:00 pm.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for an Article 6.2 (Internationally Transferred Mitigation Outcomes, ITMOs) oversight body to allow for up-front reporting.
 Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of limiting discussions to issues related to further quantified commitments for Annex I countries.
Regarding a suggestion that Annex I Parties report on capacity-building activities, the EU said that all Parties should report.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, cautioned parties “not to change the focus and character” of the contact group, called for focusing energies on discussions in the spin-off groups and said topics for discussion should complement the agreed outcome under the AWG-LCA.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized that reorganization should retain everything agreed so far.
Pointing to the limitations of the carbon market, BURKINA FASO suggested exploring ways to institutionalize predictable funding sources.
The G-77/CHINA identified relevant criteria to inform the level of ambition for individual countries, including: capability and national circumstances; historical responsibility and current emissions; and equity and sustainable development.
NEW ZEALAND said universal participation would deliver an enhanced level of ambition and would be the best platform on which to build.
Switzerland, for the EIG, described differentiation as a tool to reflect distinct realities and circumstances, saying that fair differentiation requires self-differentiation, complemented by guiding elements.
During the ensuing negotiations in the contact group on Annex I emission reductions, co-chaired by Leon Charles (Grenada) and Jürgen Lefevere (EU), parties explored various options and their implications on emission reductions, and moved paragraph-by-paragraph through the issues in the text.
The EU requested more information about the functions of these panels, noting similarity to some of the proposals made in the AWG-LCA contact group on finance.
The US said careful analysis of impacts in developing countries of climate change policies in Annex I countries since the FCCC entered into force constitutes appropriate action prior to consideration of future policies and measures.
While acknowledging the need to revise guidelines for national communications, SIERRA LEONE stressed that less rigid criteria should apply to the LDCs.
With BELGIUM and SWITZERLAND, the NETHERLANDS underscored equity, effectiveness and efficiency.
He said a compilation document will include proposals from AOSIS, the German elements paper, the Russian Federation, and the EU protocol structure.
 \t\tTANZANIA, LIBERIA, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK (CAN) and others underscored \t\trural livelihoods and local communities.
BANGLADESH proposed establishing a strong financial arrangement for technology transfer alongside the necessary institutional arrangements.
ROMANIA called for flexibility and cost effective reductions.
SINGAPORE identified challenges to defining equity given different national circumstances, defining his country as one that is “disadvantaged” in terms of alternative energy sources.
Both the EU and Chile, for the G-77/China, \t\t\texpressed concern over the timely implementation of the ITL, with \t\t\tthe G-77/China adding that the ITL should be fully functional by the \t\t\tend of 2007.
SAUDI ARABIA said that, in spite of the uncertainties, all models agree that there will be negative impacts from response measures on developing countries.
AUSTRALIA highlighted that her country’s target range assumes the functioning of carbon markets.
The Commission of the European Community announced that as a Party, it is prepared to make an annual contribution of 2.5% of the administrative budget (in addition to the contribution of EU member States) and that this should be reflected in the documentation.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said these were not yet identifiable because mechanisms’ operation was still under discussion.
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund under the Convention, supporting “separate but coherent” funds under the Convention and the Protocol.
TUVALU requested the work not be restricted to appendix 2.
It requests the GEF to \t\treport to COP-11 and subsequent sessions on relevant activities of,  \t\tinter alia, the LDC Fund and SCCF.
AUSTRALIA asked for clarification about process following consolidation of text and for discussion on ambitions for Copenhagen.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for continued engagement on substance through informal informals and by allocating additional time to certain items.
CHINA and the PHILIPPINES wanted to add that it is mainly the role of Annex II Parties to carry out such activities.
On the IMO, CHINA expressed concern on the adoption of the European system to monitor CO2 emissions from ships in its ports.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, emphasized commitment to adopting amendments to the Protocol in Doha with a view to operationalize the second commitment period.
  Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), noted that the consultations will consider the Executive Committee (ExCom) report and recommendations, rather than the COP’s authority over and guidance to the WIM.
Kyrgyzstan, on behalf of MOUNTAIN LANDLOCKED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES, with NEPAL, urged consideration of mountainous ecosystems in negotiations.
Cuba, for ALBA, invited innovative approaches under Article 6.8 (non-market approaches), cautioning against “reinventing” market-based approaches under this item.
At the conclusion of the meeting, the G-77/CHINA proposed an additional paragraph outlining principles for addressing P&amp;Ms. Co-Chair Giroux highlighted existing text that he believed addressed this issue, and suggested placing the proposal in brackets pending further internal G-77/CHINA consultations.
Canada noted its experience with establishing a similar committee, and France, the EU, the UK, China, and Ukraine expressed interest in participating in such a committee.
Following a question by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, SAMOA clarified that the rule that would be applied, namely the eligibility rule, would already be in place so it would not actually be a case of retroactive application of law.
 On the revised elements paper, the US suggested that an additional objective for an MCP is to “provide assistance to Parties” and to include scientific and technological issues as an area of expertise.
Finland, supported by South Africa, the EU and Italy, suggested using approved text that e2 80 9cthese methods cannot identify e2 80 9d the single best balance.
AUSTRALIA cautioned against differentiating between guiding principles and criteria, recalling similar earlier discussions that had not resulted in agreement.
BRAZIL supported text urging timely submission of reports.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA suggested it be e2 80 9choused e2 80 9d under the SBI, with PERU adding that a joint SBSTA/SBI agenda item is possible.
AUSTRALIA encouraged SBSTA to support programmes for improving maritime and aviation emissions estimates, and supported a comparison of aviation fuel and emissions data with ICAO models.
In \t\tresponse to the US 92 suggestion that non-Annex I Parties provide regular \t\tupdates to their greenhouse gas inventories, the G-77/CHINA said that \t\tinventories are a 93non-issue 94 in the context of the contact group 92s work \t\tas no COP decisions require such updates and therefore the contact group \t\tshould not address inventories.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported a decision on NAMA crediting, and said the proposal aimed to help developing countries benefit from market mechanisms.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the ADP’s outcome must be in line with the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention and emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
On additional activities during the second and subsequent commitment periods, the EU, NORWAY, TUVALU and MALAYSIA, opposed by JAPAN, said the COP should establish a list prior to the second commitment period.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported reference to economies in transition in the text.
Following the US Presidential election, these high-level forums also served as important platforms for states to signal their resolve to move forward, preferably with the US still engaged in the multilateral climate process.
 Subsequent to INC-10, Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), submitted a draft protocol to the Interim Secretariat.
AUSTRALIA suggested consolidating paragraph 88 with paragraph 84.
JAPAN urged greater coordination between the GEF and UNFCCC, and several Parties highlighted the need to document best practice and lessons learned.
NIGER called for measures to simplify project registration and promote African Designated Operational Entities.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested that the compliance system specifically take on board the precautionary approach.
JAPAN proposed creation of a foundation for global measures.
Parties discussed textual proposals from AOSIS, the African Group, Brazil, Australia, the EU and Brazil, which were compiled into a non-paper.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a focused, urgent and meaningful response to the “numbers” issue.
The EU said it was premature to consider simplified procedures for these projects.
The G-77/ CHINA presented alternative text on ToR.
NORWAY and the GAMBIA identified women and children as the most vulnerable.
JAPAN supported keeping text on guidance provided by “a dedicated body constituted by the COP/MOP,” highlighting a link between standardized baselines and proposed new mechanisms.
COLOMBIA discussed the role of territorial planning and proposed a regional center for adaptation, while MALAWI emphasized local knowledge.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES added that the presumption of good faith and innocence would require that no action be taken until there is a determination of non-compliance.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested building on existing mechanisms or guidelines, such as national communications, and applying these, rather than establishing new ones.
The US, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN and others, asked for more clarity on the working modalities, particularly chairing arrangements.
AUSTRALIA and the US said discussions should focus on minimizing adverse impacts rather than on compensation.
Guatemala, for AILAC, was encouraged by the references to long-term approaches.
AUSTRALIA objected to text stating that Convention \t\tparties could participate in informal consultations under the Protocol \t\tunless parties to the Protocol 93formally object, 94 arguing that \t\tConvention parties are always able to participate.
TANZANIA \t\temphasized technology transfer.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed disappointment with the text, noting that it is “unbalanced,” failing to reflect the main elements of the Bali Action Plan.
The US supported references to non-Annex I Parties in the text, as Article 3.14 did not specify whether actions to be considered by the COP/MOP under this article were exclusively those of Annex I Parties.
Japan and Australia, for the Umbrella Group, also noted the important nature of the COP-9 outcomes.
This group of "Friends" was to consist of four members of the EU, four other OECD country representatives, two OPEC countries, two Eastern European countries, and the remaining delegates from the newly named "Group of 69."
Supported wholly or in part by many parties, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for adding to the new agreement: operationalization of the long-term goal; parameters for mitigation commitments; metrics for commitments; a system to progressively increase ambition; accounting rules; and clarity on market mechanisms.
The EU suggested reordering the headings as outlined in the structural suggestion at the end of section F in the Geneva text, starting with: guiding principles; scale of resources; commitments/contributions/actions; sources of finance; and institutional arrangements.
 Regarding Agenda Item 8(b) (research and systematic observations), ARGENTINA, on behalf of the VALDIVIA GROUP, called for more research on natural climate variability in the region and on oceanic effects.
BRAZIL stressed avoiding duplication and promoting coherence between these organizations, and the UNFCCC and its principles.
The G-77/CHINA introduced text on enhancing: the "push factor" in developed countries to transfer technologies to developing countries; assessments on technology transfer; and joint research on environmentally sound technologies.
The G-77/CHINA said technical appendices complicate the issue and stressed the need to address the technical issues.
The US requested further information on the Secretariat’s cooperation with the UNDP, and encouraged close cooperation with the GEF Secretariat, other agencies and bilateral donors.
BOLIVIA said strong IPRs increase costs of R&amp;D, and INDIA, with the PHILIPPINES, suggested compulsory licensing.
The AFRICAN GROUP, the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for including response measures in the agreement.
AUSTRALIA said provision of means of implementation means establishing a partnership between contributors and recipients, and the 2020 finance goal must be seen in the context of effective mitigation action and transparent implementation of support.
Following discussions, the EU suggested replacing the sentence with a general reference to decision 13/CP.7 (P&amp;Ms).
AOSIS supported retaining the GEF as the financial mechanism, but stated that it needed improving and strengthening.
Kristalina Georgieva, CEO, World Bank, announced the Bank’s intent to double its support for climate finance, pledging US$200 billion for climate action, including US$50 billion for adaptation and resilience.
UGANDA called for the GEF to reduce project implementation bureaucracy.
The EU called for the Secretariat to compile information from INDCs into a paper, and proposed workshops to allow discussions among parties and engage outside organizations that have carried out analysis of INDCs.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the bureaus of the two subsidiary bodies must work in close coordination to avoid delays.
The EU stressed the need to: adopt a ratifiable amendment to the Protocol; inscribe QELROs in Annex B; and agree on an eight-year second commitment period, which should be combined with a review process.
Vanuatu, speaking for the LDCs, noted that this group had only established itself recently.
ZAMBIA noted that many countries are in the process of accrediting national entities and called for a review of the requirements to make them simpler, yet robust.
The US suggested using the TSUs in addition to any focal \t\tpoints.
The US, supported by Saudi \t\t\tArabia, criticized the structure of the SPM separating impacts and \t\t\tadaptation, and lamented Section C 92s focus on key selected impacts.
He said the economic impacts of response measures would be negative on OECD countries and could be extremely negative on oil producing developing countries, while other developing countries could experience either positive and/or negative effects.
The EU supported a new protocol under the Convention in which all parties would take on commitments.
The US suggested that Parties carry out “as supplemental information” adjustments on inventory data.
CANADA and JAPAN called for a flexible legal instrument.
The EU, Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed satisfaction with progress on various issues but noted limited time available at this session due to the work of the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
CHINA supported mid-term mitigation targets by developed countries as the basis for determining long-term mitigation goals, and stressed the right to develop as a “fundamental and inalienable human right.” COSTA RICA discussed nationally appropriate mitigation actions and its intention to achieve carbon neutrality by 2021.
CHINA and BRAZIL suggested only considering afforestation and reforestation under the CDM.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 accelerate the implementation of its work programme on readiness and preparatory support, ensuring that adequate resources are provided for its execution, including from the initial resource mobilization process, providing urgent support to developing countries, in particular LDCs, SIDS and African states, led by their national designated authorities or focal points to build institutional capacities;
JORDAN said his government would be pleased to host COP-5.
Reiterating that the ADP must be negotiated under the Convention, BRAZIL affirmed that the negotiation of a new legal instrument for 2020 is the main focus of the Durban Platform.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the Protocol as critical to the UNFCCC process and identified ambitious emission reductions by Annex I parties as the only way to reduce the already evident impacts of climate change.
 On institutional configurations, AUSTRALIA favored enhancing existing mechanisms and stressed cooperation.
At the first meeting of the contact group on Friday, 6 June, the EU, supported by the US, suggested holding workshops to share information on sector or sub-sector specific activities.
AUSTRIA and the US \t\tsuggested attending to this in the rules of procedure rather than in the \t\tdefinitions.
On accounting, PAKISTAN said a common reporting format is not applicable and expressed preference for a graduated model.
The US stressed the need to strengthen recipient country reporting of financial flows.
GUYANA and PALAU announced they have ratified the Doha Amendment and will submit their instruments of acceptance shortly.
The US, with CANADA and the EU, said the proposal addressed issues currently under consideration in other negotiating groups, such as discussions on Stage III adaptation, and cautioned against moving beyond other related negotiations.
BURUNDI lamented that “the text is still bracketed” and emphasized capacity building as necessary for her country to adapt to climate change impacts.
The US proposed moving the section on plans and strategies into the section on the definition and scope of NAMAs.
Answering a question from Nigeria on whether the US$405,000 was the minimum or maximum amount countries could apply for, Bonduki said it was the maximum using the expedited process, but countries could choose to apply for a full-sized GEF project instead, in which case the amount could be higher.
The elements of the package deal struck between the EU and the Umbrella Group focused on four issues: Party-to-Party trigger, appeal, reinstatement of eligibility and compliance action plan.
CANADA and others called for simplification of amendment procedures.
The EU highlighted their priority of leaving Doha with a clear understanding of the work to be undertaken next year under the ADP.
The US questioned the need for a separate Section on objectives.
Making closing statements, Grenada, for AOSIS, called for COP 16 to deliver a comprehensive and ambitious outcome that builds confidence and momentum for an agreement at COP 17 in South Africa.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION outlined plans to reduce emissions by 10-15% by 2020 in comparison to 1990 levels.
NORWAY introduced a proposal by Norway, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Canada, the US and Australia, intended to set up a work programme up to 2014 to seek further clarification on pledges’ underlying assumptions, before parties start reporting on their achievement of mitigation targets.
The US reiterated that the COP has responsibility for mobilizing funds.
Non-Annex I communications: The G-77/CHINA highlighted insufficient financial resources to meet the 93agreed full costs 94 in the preparation of non-Annex I communications.
SOUTH AFRICA noted the need for a comprehensive international programme on the implementation of adaptation.
The US called for including text: encouraging parties to build effective enabling environments; calling for elimination of public incentives for high-carbon investment; and recognizing that climate finance flows in all directions.
On tools to deliver these services, the US identified as possibilities: teams of expert responders to provide assistance drawn from the network to undertake in-country visits and provide capacity building for projects and policy proposals; regional-, country- or issue-specific training to build capacity; and funding assistance to identify sources of financing.
SAUDI ARABIA did not agree.
EGYPT, opposed by the US and EU, suggested that two paragraphs were repetitious: a paragraph welcoming developed countries’ progress toward the goal of mobilizing US$100 billion annually by 2020; and paragraph 1, welcoming submissions by developed countries in response to Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 114 (enhanced provision of, inter alia, finance and a roadmap to US$100 billion).
The AOSIS draft protocol, along with other proposals and pertinent documents, will be included for consideration in the process.
After including reference to the linkages between this sub-item and that on no QELRCs, at the request of the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the contact group agreed to forward the draft conclusions for SBSTA e2 80 99s consideration.
NIGERIA opposed the establishment of any new annexes that create a new category of Parties.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA indicated that consideration of comparable efforts by developed countries by the AWG-LCA ensured coherence between the two negotiating tracks.
Several delegates, including the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SPAIN, objected to the removal of interpretation services.
BRAZIL, with SOUTH AFRICA, said the addition of this paragraph was contingent on deletion of a paragraph inviting parties that are not ready to communicate their INDCs by the first quarter of 2015 to do so by 31 May 2015 or as soon as possible thereafter.
On ways to enhance the ambition of pledges, NORWAY emphasized: participation of all major emitters; clarity of major emitters’ individual commitments; and a collective level of ambition.
BRAZIL suggested joint sessions between informal consultation groups discussing cross-cutting issues and placeholders.
The G-77/CHINA asked the Co-Chair to postpone discussion on the draft text pending internal G-77/CHINA consideration.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted the imperative for accelerating progress under the AWG-KP and the need for focusing on efficient institutions and robust carbon markets.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported by the EU and NEW ZEALAND, welcomed the Chairs’ proposal to discuss all options.
The EU said the consolidating process was valuable and could help in the line-by-line negotiations.
TOGO stressed that public awareness programmes should not be based on political or economic considerations that place the least developed countries on the periphery.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION questioned the usefulness of the tables, noting that there is no information on how the calculations have been made.
The US suggested the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund would have its own board composed of finance experts with equal representation of developing and developed countries and would be accountable to the COP.
Expressing extreme disappointment over the inability to complete the mandate of the review, Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed that the findings of the review underscore that the “guardrail of 2 c2 b0C is wholly inadequate” and that “no outcome on the review is not an option.”
On adoption, JAPAN said COP-6 could recommend that the COP/MOP adopt a decision.
They also did not agree on reference to developing national adaptation programmes of action, with the US stating that this was under consideration in the contact group on adverse effects.
He also welcomed the US delegation and stated that the US is now “back in the game.”
CHILE called for reference to intergenerational equity.
GRENADA called for simplified access to climate finance, strong standards and safeguards, and milestones to reach the US$100 billion goal.
The EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and others supported a technical workshop before Durban, while BRAZIL, supported by SURINAME and others, suggested a technical expert group, given the technical expertise required for certain issues to be addressed.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), underscored the need to maintain the substance and balance of the Paris outcome.
The US clarified, and Chair Chruszczow confirmed, that at this stage, the SBI can only approve the revised agenda, leaving the operationalization of these items for later.
The US said the goal should e2 80 9celevate e2 80 9d adaptation within national planning processes.
Canada, supported by Norway, the UK, and US, stressed referring to the country-driven approach, national circumstances and sustainable development.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for direct negotiations between parties, and opposed e2 80 9clast-minute imposition of text by co-facilitators e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cimposition of commitments on Arab States.
AOSIS expressed concern that the inclusion of land-use change in national inventories may allow countries to recalculate their inventories and 93erase 94 the bulk of what was achieved at Kyoto.
MALAYSIA emphasized that mitigation in developing countries should take place in the context of economic development.
SIERRA LEONE said a draft text for a protocol should be available in time for AGBM-6.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored efforts undertaken since 2007 to fulfill the AWG-LCA’s mandate and build confidence among parties, including the establishment of transparency requirements for all parties, the Adaptation Framework and the GCF.
The US proposed that the December workshop consider methodological, reporting, review and assessment issues.
On the purpose of the review/assessment/mechanism, the EU saw this best placed in the agreement.
The EU also proposed adding text noting scientific \t\tevidence for the need to ensure that global emissions peak in the next \t\t10 to 15 years and are reduced by 50% by 2050.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed appreciation for the GEF’s fifht replenishment, while noting the need to improve access to GEF resources, highlighting the need for country ownership and raising concerns with private sector involvement in procuring funding.
ZIMBABWE, for the Africa Group, called for increased support for adaptation projects.
BELIZE suggested strengthening the Durban Forum to identify and respond to capacity needs, emphasizing support for endogenous capacity and local and indigenous expertise.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated that IPRs represent a barrier to technology transfer.
BRAZIL and CHINA stressed that the review must not lead to new commitments.
GHANA, with THAILAND, highlighted REDD as an adaptation strategy cutting across the four building blocks.
BOLIVIA requested a footnote in the adopted provisional agenda stating that Decision 1/CP.16 had been adopted despite the explicit objection of a Convention party.
SLOVENIA agreed that equity was an important consideration and supported the flat rate approach.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the LMDCs, proposed that the technical examination process be facilitated by co-facilitators representing Annex I and non-Annex I parties, appointed by the ADP Co-Chairs for 2015-2017.
The PHILIPPINES, BOLIVIA, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA reiterated the mandate in the Bali Action Plan, which highlights NAMAs by developing country parties in the context of sustainable development, supported and enabled by technology, financing and capacity-building, in a measurable, reportable and verifiable manner.
BRAZIL, with COLOMBIA, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and MOROCCO, said decisions on baselines should be taken by a politically-appointed body, such as the Executive Board.
The EU proposed three types of reviews, focusing on: the long-term goal itself; whether parties are on track to meet the goal; and a comprehensive review of actions under the various building blocks.
Nauru, for AOSIS, underscored the need for data to ascertain loss and damage in SIDS due to climate change and sea-level rise.
The UK, opposed by several delegates, supported a role for the Secretariat.
JAPAN, with the US and SAMOA, questioned the need to specifically provide the COP/MOP with a referral function since referral could be by "a Party or group of Parties" She also questioned the need to involve the Secretariat in the referral process.
JAPAN underscored the need to discuss loss and damage.
JAPAN stressed cost-benefit analysis for adaptation activities.
Bhutan, for the LDCs, called for reviews to take place at least once in every five-year cycle.
The EU, CANADA, JAPAN, URUGUAY, COSTA RICA and NEW ZEALAND preferred using the Orvieto document as it stands and stressed the tight work schedule leading to COP-9.
BENIN stressed the importance of integrating poverty reduction and adaptation measures.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that building “permanent homes” for finance, technology and capacity building has been no small feat, and emphasized that this work will continue through the new established mechanisms.
CHINA underscored that ministerial discussions must be transparent and balanced in terms of the subjects discussed.
The US said a shared vision should inspire and serve as the chapeau of the elements of the Bali Action Plan.
On areas for guidance, parties agreed to draw on the LDC Expert Group.
NORWAY said the TEC should report to the SBSTA and noted the TEC would be relevant to both adaptation and mitigation.
The Secretariat revised the Co-Chairs 92 proposal integrating the G-77/China and EU suggestions to reflect amendments made during the discussion.
The US stressed the need for provisions on MRV and on international consultation and analysis (ICA), indicating that reaching agreement on a fully operational system is essential this year.
Angola, for the LDCs, stated that the 2 c2 b0C limit is inadequate and should be strengthened to 1.5 c2 b0C.
UGANDA, for the LDCs, highlighted difficulties in implementing national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) due to inadequate resources.
SAMOA, supported by the EU, reminded Parties of the agreement at Kyoto that the COP/MOP would not deal with routine CDM concerns.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said transparency and comparability are seen as fundamental.
 \t\t\tThe UK reported on the UK \t\t\tClimate Impacts Programme and adaptation policy framework.
Several delegations, including KUWAIT, CANADA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, and the EU objected.
INDIA stressed that the Convention and the BAP do not provide for assessed contributions from all parties.
AOSIS and the EU supported the retention of both proposed consequences limiting the access to mechanisms.
KENYA and INDIA agreed with focusing on options with similarities that could be merged.
The transparency framework is, according to one observer “subtly trifurcated,” asking all to take legally-binding reporting requirements, with recognition of developing countries’ need for support, and a further recognition of the special capacity-building needs of SIDS and least developed countries.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA said the focus should be on \t\tmobilizing resources, identified market instruments as the most viable \t\ttool and said new ones should be created.
On limitation of debits and credits of additional activities, the US supported using a threshold, opposed using a cap, and said a possible phase-in approach should provide incentives to take action.
Responding to BRAZIL e2 80 99s question on Spain e2 80 99s decision to implement a tax on fluorinated gases of e2 82 ac20 per tCO2e, he explained it came in response to a projected doubling of related emissions and the insufficiency of existing legislation in curbing their use.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN stated that China’s allegation of their non-compliance with the Kyoto targets is inaccurate.
Malawi, for the LDCs, called for improving access to finance.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed including reference to the priorities of developing countries arising from the impact of climate change and the impact of response measures.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that the referral be by the ERTs after a subcommittee of the COP/MOP has screened the case and decides whether it would go to the compliance body, SBI or SBSTA.
AUSTRALIA supported using a single legally binding base year with multiple reference years.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by JAPAN and CROATIA, said that the aggregate range must be determined through a bottom-up approach.
The EU and others supported simplifying CDM procedures and facilitating work on methodologies for Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
The UK, opposed by the US, proposed that the paper serve as 93the 94 basis for negotiations on compliance at the next session of the JWG.
On the inclusion of activities in decision 7/CP.7 (funding under the UNFCCC), particularly on economic diversification, the EU, with NORWAY, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, called for the deletion of the reference.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, stressed the need for social and environmental project impact assessments.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, said the outcome from Bonn should be a “Bonn parties’ text,” not a Chair’s revised negotiating text.
IRAN indicated that the cycle process has to be conditional on support from developed countries.
The PHILIPPINES said that international organizations are not responsible for capacity building.
The EU welcomed progress so far.
TOGO sought clarification on the absence of "air" from the areas of expertise.
Presenting an overview of funding for the initial national communications, the GEF noted 137 countries had received US$ 80 million, which represents 8% of total funding under its climate change focal area.
ZAMBIA, TOGO, MALI, INDONESIA and others highlighted \t\tcapacity building.
  The issue of finance was addressed by the contact group on ADP item 3 on Tuesday and Wednesday, and in informal consultations, coordinated by Gary William Theseira (Malaysia) and Christo Artusio (US) on Friday.
NEW ZEALAND and TIMOR-LESTE called for a clearer definition of sectoral approaches.
Noting the desire for increasingly global participation, he said the EU was ready for discussions with all Parties at COP-4 and beyond, under FCCC Article 7.2 on regular review of Convention implementation.
SOUTH AFRICA said the preamble should cover a shared vision for each building block.
On support for the NAP process through contributions to the LDCF and the Special Climate Change Fund, CHINA, supported by INDIA and MALAYSIA, proposed deleting language inviting “parties that may make voluntary financial contributions” to provide such support.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, said that minimizing impacts of climate change on SIDS and LDCs should be the benchmark, and proposed global emission reductions of 85% by 2050 from 1990 levels with peaking by 2020, complemented by reductions by Annex I countries of more than 95% by 2050 from 1990 levels.
 On Wednesday afternoon, MOROCCO 92S CHILDREN 92S PARLIAMENT, FRANCOPHONE YOUNG PEOPLE 92S PARLIAMENT, and the WORLD YOUTH ORGANIZATION ON CLIMATE CHANGE gave presentations, with the final speaker urging a move toward a low carbon-emitting future, entry into force of the Protocol as the start of a "long path" in combating climate change, and completion at COP-7 of decision texts without weakening the Bonn Agreements.
Responding to US \t\tcomments, South Africa noted that a paragraph on developing country \t\tmitigation goes further than what was expected in the Convention, while \t\tthe paragraph on developed country commitments was not as strong as he \t\twould have liked.
PAKISTAN called for the resolution of the issue to allow Turkey to participate in the process.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, emphasized the central importance of adaptation.
The EU highlighted that inaccurate communication of risks can lead to inadequate responses.
 During the ensuing debate, one participant urged removing the “fear syndrome,” bottlenecks in methodologies, and loopholes, and stressed the importance of a fair, harmonized, rule-based approach.The EU sought clarification from the US about: states, such as California, planning to use offsets and how they would ensure double counting is avoided; possible banking and borrowing from earlier years if using a point year target; and what rules would be used for the treatment of natural disturbances and whether the Kyoto Protocol rules should be used.
SRI LANKA and IRAN called for equal distribution of information packages prepared by CC:INFO to countries beyond those included in country study programmes.
BOLIVIA said other parts of a long-term goal should also be quantified, including, inter alia, changes in developed countries’ consumption patterns and compensation to developing countries for lost development opportunities.
BANGLADESH suggested prioritizing items that can be fast-tracked, and said capacity building and finance in the context of technology should be addressed on a sectoral basis, focusing first on the most urgent needs of countries.
 On 9 June, delegates continued consideration of the EU proposal on Classification of Inventory Problems in the guidelines under Article 8, focusing on issues/problems with direct implications on the total aggregated inventory estimate or trend.
Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to conclude all elements of the Bali Action Plan under the AWG-LCA, including an agreement on institutional arrangements for REDD+ finance and a decision on the new market mechanism (NMM) covering the forest sector, in order to help bridge the ambition gap.
The US, with Canada, proposed moving the cluster on plans and strategies after the cluster on definition and scope of NAMAs, with Canada clarifying that plans and strategies provide framing for NAMAs.
POLAND stressed the need to balance mitigation and adaptation measures.
NORWAY and BRAZIL suggested markets be anchored in the agreement, while details on markets be expressed in decisions.
PAKISTAN said: the agenda should be comprehensive enough to allow all parties to remain engaged and retain trust; and that work must focus on, inter alia, on the post-2020 architecture.
On \t\tFriday morning, 9 December, the US offered a counter-proposal to Dion 92s \t\ttext and informal discussions continued all day.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said her group looks forward to the review of the Adaptation Fund and acknowledges its critical role for implementing adaptation projects.
CANADA urged identification of priorities for action as well as continuation of information-gathering, noting that "action and learning are two sides of the same coin and we have to keep moving on both."
SWITZERLAND announced that it had ratified the Kyoto Protocol on 2 June 2003.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, INDONESIA, COLOMBIA and others called for enhancing the facilitation of visas for intersessional meetings, as well as for Cancún.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, requested deletion of references to the co-chairs’ informal summary of the pre-sessional roundtables, noting that parties had not been consulted on its contents.
The Co-Chairs of the Task Group on Governance and Management, David Warrilow (UK) and Taha Zatari (Saudi Arabia) presented the work of the Task Group, noting issues such as the terms of reference (ToR) for an Executive Committee, including voting, ToR for the Bureau, terms of office, and the creation of an “Executive Director” position.
CANADA noted duplication and called for coherence with the section on technology.
 Noting that Sweden is one of the world’s largest per capita donors of climate finance, Karolina Skog, Minister for the Environment, Sweden, announced two additional Swedish contributions of approximately USD 5.5 million to the Adaptation Fund and the LDC Fund, respectively.
The NETHERLANDS said he understood that the impact of response measures on non-annex I energy importers would be positive or neutral overall.
ZIMBABWE, on behalf of the Africa Group, said Annex I Parties have failed to assume leadership in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and lack political will to do so.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Mexico said such anchoring could be achieved by using the phrase e2 80 9cshall serve in this agreement.
BRAZIL stressed that the proposal would require an amendment to the Protocol and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized that it falls outside the AWG-KP’s mandate.
The Czech Republic, speaking as the incoming EU presidency, noted the agreement among EU leaders on measures to combat climate change reached earlier in the day at a meeting in Brussels, Belgium, and emphasized the EU’s commitment to a Copenhagen agreement.
KENYA supported a review mechanism, and MEXICO called for robust MRV.
BRAZIL stressed that for his country, the continuity of the Protocol is one of “the key aspects of the Copenhagen outcome” and noted that selectively picking elements from the Protocol would weaken the entire regime.
With CANADA, JAPAN and the EU, she emphasized that adaptation should be country-driven and that priority should be given to the most vulnerable.
CHINA said the AWG-KP must focus on Annex I parties and that this discussion should focus on adverse impacts.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a procedural decision and a political declaration that urges increased ambition for new and updated NDCs submitted in 2020.
The US said it would be difficult to discuss these issues out of context, and, with TANZANIA and CANADA, noted other possible areas for prioritization.
Switzerland, for the EIG, noted different circumstances need different instruments and sources.
The EU suggested discussing pathways linking commitment period targets and mitigation goals under the AWG-LCA.
Parties generally supported enhancing adaptation action under the adaptation framework, and establishing a process for LDCs to formulate and implement National Adaptation Programmes of Action.
SIERRA LEONE, UGANDA and TIMOR-LESTE highlighted country-specific circumstances.
The AFRICAN GROUP, said the AWG-LCA’s work should be conducted expeditiously, economically and transparently, and supported equity in process and outcome.
INDIA indicated interest in further consultations on unilateral measures.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, expressed concern over “regression” in areas such as adaptation and capacity building.
The EU said all OECD countries should have legally binding targets.
The G-77/CHINA also stressed the need for another negotiating session before Durban.
The EU said the trial period would help in achieving a better understanding of potential inventory problems.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for the ADP to outline a clear plan for taking forward the work required to deliver its mandate.
The US suggested text noting the need to take account of the financial resources that "may be needed" for the implementation of the EGTT 92s work programme, while THAILAND and GHANA supported text stating that the EGTT "requires" more resources.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and AOSIS said that only parties to a second commitment period should have access to the flexible mechanisms.
The EU and JAPAN supported a common reporting format (CRF) proposed for inventory data guidelines.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed discussing maritime and aviation emissions without addressing the adverse impacts of response measures.
Parties emphasized the urgency and importance of adaptation, with the EU reiterating its proposal for a framework of action on adaptation, and AOSIS suggesting a committee on adaptation under the Convention.
COLOMBIA, opposed by KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA, suggested using the Secretariat 92s Note on the WTO for future discussion on this issue.
UZBEKISTAN stressed workshops for information exchange for Central Asia.
On the definition of emission reduction units (ERUs), the US noted convergence on how to denominate, serialize and track ERUs, and reiterated the need to recognize that procedures used elsewhere may not be appropriate for constructing JI.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the US, preferred replacing e2 80 9cunilateral e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cunconditional.
SWITZERLAND endorsed a practical approach focused on identifying appropriate needs in specific areas.
Noting recent findings of an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/Climate Policy Initiative report, one group proposed decision language requiring a significant share of new multilateral funding for climate change action to flow through the financial mechanism of the Convention and its Protocol.
Peru, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), called for progress on, inter alia: designing the 2018 facilitative dialogue; adopting a gender action plan; and supporting work on emerging issues such as oceans, health and indigenous peoples.
CANADA supported encouraging the IMO and ICAO to intensify their efforts.
GERMANY said the SIDS were represented in the Bureau of the INC in 1991.
BOLIVIA reiterated that her country had opposed small-group negotiations and stressed opposition to paragraph 52 on revising procedures for CDM project registration.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs: called for a standing agenda item for loss and damage; lamented insufficiency of resources in the LDC Fund; and called for ensuring the sustainability of the Adaptation Fund’s operations.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that discussions are now becoming more concrete, which he said was necessary to fulfill the Paris Agreement’s mandates.
 The EU supported the proposed 1 April 1996 deadline for submissions on the approach for the second compilation and encouraged Annex I Parties with economies in transition to use 1990 as the base-year as soon their capabilities permit.
FINLAND requested clarification on the role \t\tand classification of peat.
The EU proposed referring to review cycles, noting that there are specific reviews that all require timeframes.
On  , the US highlighted that, according to the Cancun agreements, a technical analysis should be followed by consultations and suggested these be held in the subsidiary bodies for the sake of transparency and in a non-intrusive and non-punitive manner.
GABON underscored the importance of considering REDD+.
  During the first session, Hungary, for the European Union (EU), confirmed that its Kyoto Protocol target had been met while growing gross domestic product (GDP) in the period 1990-2009.
BRAZIL stressed environmental integrity and the need for real and measurable emission reductions, and expressed concern with setting standardized baseline levels and over who sets them.
Parties discussed strengthening references to support the NAP process for LDC parties through bilateral and multilateral channels, including the LDC Fund.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said “real progress” at COP 22 demonstrates that “the spirit of Paris remains strong.”
BANGLADESH called for an adaptation protocol.
NEW ZEALAND proposed the range of options for developing guidance includes: identification of NDC types and developing guidance for each; a panel-based assessment similar to the CDM Methodologies Panel; and parties explaining why and how their approach is consistent with the principles of Paris Agreement Article 4.13 (accounting for NDCs).
The PHILIPPINES mentioned experiencing problems with implementing agencies and said that they should be more aware of decisions taken by the GEF Council.
VENEZUELA proposed language on guidance needed for the IMO and ICAO.
BOLIVIA proposed including forest protection initiatives under emissions avoidance.
 The EU clarified that energy efficiency, standards and labeling, as well as P&amp;Ms related to fluorocarbons, should be the highest priority.
 \t\tThe G-77/CHINA suggested addressing governance issues.
TANZANIA lamented that only a few developing countries were enjoying the benefits from the CDM.
NORWAY suggested a synthesis paper based on the submissions, which IRAN opposed.
CHINA identified the need to support both “soft” and “hard” technologies.
IRAN requested SAUDI ARABIA and the countries on whose behalf it spoke to join the consensus.
CHINA opposed any attempt to merge the two AWGs but said they could go along with the proposal by Colombia if the discussion was strictly limited to discussion of Annex I emission reductions and was compatible with the respective mandates of the AWGs.
The second option, proposed \t\tby the EU, spelled out these findings.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the need to fully implement the LDC work programme, lamented that the LDCF does not contain adequate resources to fully implement national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) and opposed the co-financing requirement.
During discussions, INDIA, VENEZUELA and EGYPT emphasized that Decision 1/CP.16 mandates the AWG-LCA to take all actions under the Cancun Agreements, unless otherwise specified.
TFI Co-Chair Tanabe recalled the agreement by the Panel to dedicate the 2019 Guidelines to the memory of Jim Penman, UK, for his lifetime of hard work and dedication, including to the IPCC.
Germany emphasized the need for clarity on what is \t\t\tand what is not included in the sea level rise projections, and \t\t\tKenya, Sudan, the US, Canada, and others asked that the language \t\t\tremain understandable.
  The Gambia, on behalf of the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by ALGERIA, EGYPT, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA called for all contact groups under the AWG-KP to be suspended until conclusion of work by the contact group on Annex I emission reductions.
The EU recommended a draft decision extending the AG13 mandate to COP-3 and a role in examining ways to apply an MCP to a protocol in cooperation with the AGBM.
 SAUDI ARABIA, supporting Poland, stated that simplification should be avoided.
AFGHANISTAN and TAJIKISTAN proposed special consideration for mountainous countries.
 On Agenda Item 8 (a) (roster of experts), the G-77/CHINA had not yet considered the item and reserved its position.
The EU reiterated its preference to exclude sequestration pending a COP decision.
The MALDIVES lamented that reliance on the phrase “form should follow function” is slowing down the negotiations.
 On this issue (FCCC/SB/2012/1), Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK) will co-chair a joint SBI and SBSTA contact group.
SWITZERLAND called for commitments by all countries to provide resources for climate change policies and, with the US and the LDCs, for all countries in a position to do so to provide support to those requiring it.
With the US and BARBADOS, he suggested omitting response measures from the section, which SAUDI ARABIA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and ALGERIA opposed.
\t\tThe US, CANADA, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, and NORWAY supported this \t\tcomprehensive approach.
The EU highlighted specific tasks in the AWG-LCA’s mandate, saying that no decision on market approaches would mean no process to consider the issue after Doha.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, and Colombia, for AILAC, called for addressing linkages among issues, and clarity on the format of the decision or decisions envisaged for COP 24.
The EU said the paragraphs were related to other guidelines and preferred their inclusion in a general section.
CANADA reported on a recent meeting in Calgary on the "cleaner or less greenhouse-gas-emitting energy trade," highlighting, inter alia, conclusions that: optimal uptake of cleaner or less greenhouse-gas-emitting energy depends not only on domestic emissions reduction strategies, but also on international trade; and that such trade under the Protocol could encounter significant barriers limiting emissions reduction opportunities and could even lead to increased emissions.
INDIA called for greater creativity from developed countries to mobilize innovative sources of finance, such as pension funds.
SWITZERLAND inquired about a date for early crediting noting the lack of clarity in the case of joint implementation (JI).
The US called for considering the costs and benefits of an additional session.
With CAMBODIA, he expressed support for assessed financial contributions from developed countries.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged focus on outstanding substantive issues to ensure that the remaining time until COP/MOP 6 is used effectively to reach agreement on Annex I parties’ emission reduction targets.
Parties also considered initial guidance by the CMA to the LDC Fund (LDCF) and the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) and guidance by the CMA on the adjustment of existing NDCs.
ARGENTINA asked for clarifications on the scope of these consultations.
POLAND called for final decisions on the mechanisms at COP-5 and proposed a pilot phase for emissions trading.
On the issues to be addressed by COP 17, Papua New Guinea, with the US, Ghana, Australia, Indonesia, the European Union (EU), Guyana and Switzerland, said Appendix II of Decision 1/CP.16 on the work programme should form the basis for discussions.
Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of Lesotho, for the LDCs, noted progress by LDCs in developing their NAPAs and called for scaling up accessible, predictable and sustainable finance for LDCs that is additional to official development assistance.
ARGENTINA, for a group of developing countries, and CHINA said measures taken on climate change under the IMO and ICAO should respect the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular CBDR.
Barbados, for AOSIS, cautioned against reopening issues that are in the GCF Governing Instrument.
MALAYSIA called for annexes with provisions to ensure the commitments of Article 4.1 and regular review of these provisions.
After adoption, SAUDI ARABIA said that he could not agree to adopting the conclusions and the draft decision, and underscored the importance of financial resources.
The G-77/CHINA said attempts to link the AWG-LCA to other processes threaten to dilute the AWG-LCA, and stated that work in future sessions must be based on the Convention’s principles.
 SWEDEN: Anna Lindh, Minister of the Environment, said a continued strategy for reducing CO2 emissions should include concrete technical measures in a protocol and called for wise transformation of industrial processes, energy systems and transport patterns.
Morocco, supported by the UK, queried how an \t\tobserver organization might have its status revoked.
The EU stressed the need for consistency and symmetry within all definitions.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA supported the use of existing UNFCCC rules of procedure, while noting that one of the key rules has not yet been agreed.
NORWAY elaborated on its proposal that includes auctioning of emission allowances, noting that the crucial elements are the amount of allowances in the system and a requirement for countries to redeem allowances.
Switzerland, for the EIG, expressed support for the Chair’s paper proposing elements of a possible outcome, stating that it reflects the elements of the BAP.
On addressing  , the G-77/China, AOSIS and Fiji highlighted insurance for extreme events, and, with Turkey, creation of a mechanism to address loss and damage.
The US further stressed that: financial contributions will depend on what is deliverable; and a successful and ambitious agreement applicable to all requires flexibility, fairness and transparency to allow accountability for “collective adequacy.” SWITZERLAND invited parties to apply the Convention principles in a manner that “empowers us to do more and not as an excuse to do nothing.” The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed that decision 1/CP.17 clearly recognizes that climate change has to be “urgently addressed by all parties.” BOLIVIA emphasized that mitigation has to be undertaken in conjunction with poverty eradication and sustainable development.
Vice-Chair Dovland suggested retaining the Chair’s text and holding the text proposed by the EU for future use.
The US, \t\tsupported by the G-77/China but opposed by the EU, called for a review \t\tof the approach for selecting membership of constituencies.
SAUDI ARABIA said the COP/MOP should have a screening function and determine whether an issue would go to a facilitative compliance body, the SBI or SBSTA.
SINGAPORE stressed the importance of taking into account national circumstances and national legal requirements.
AUSTRALIA said capacity building needs to be tailored to national circumstances, questioning the ability of an international, “macro-level” mechanism to achieve this task.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of making progress on technology transfer and said he looked forward to the progress report on the NWP.
The European Union (EU) highlighted that its overall goal for Cancun is to make as much progress as possible towards an ambitious, comprehensive and legally-binding outcome in line with the 2°C objective.
Delegates agreed to include, in brackets, EU text encouraging parties to submit their views at SBSTA-13 on ToR and on the timing of the process, and the G-77/CHINA ef bf bds proposal to refer to holding a workshop in "early" 2001.
NIGERIA suggested organizing workshops to examine the effect of P&amp;Ms on developing countries, and proposed that P&amp;Ms be addressed as a cross-cutting issue with FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects).
EGYPT noted that the issue of HFCs is also being discussed under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
The EU, Chile, Mexico, Mali and AOSIS welcomed workstream 2 as a tool to engage with non-state actors.
SWITZERLAND, supported by HUNGARY, urged SBSTA to further elaborate on the inclusion of bunker fuel emissions in overall GHG inventories.
Chair Fred Onduri (Uganda) reported on the activities of the LDC Expert Group (LEG).
AUSTRALIA noted that progress on elements of a balanced package has “not been balanced.” She underscored limited progress on mitigation, MRV and ICA.
During the panel discussion, Jonathan Pershing, US, urged for increasing leveraging ratios to scale up MOI.
Brazil proposed party-only workshops and the US a “non-intrusive” facilitated sharing of views.
The EIG, supported by GEORGIA, suggested adding that the APA agrees to focus its further work in the upcoming session on substantive elements of the agreed working areas, which CHINA opposed, saying that this could imply that the APA was not already working on substantive matters.
With COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA and IRAN, he noted they are supplemental to domestic action.
The US and the UK were concerned that there is currently no formal review of the atlas and delegates decided that this would be taken up in the plenary session.
The UK noted that equitable \t\tgeographic distribution was already being addressed under CDM \t\tdiscussions, and should not be considered, to avoid duplication of \t\tefforts.
DENMARK stressed the social \t\tdimension of technology application and highlighted the importance of \t\tcooperation among project partners.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA said discussion on cooperation and support for implementation was not mandated by Decision 1/CP.17 (establishing the ADP).
The US noted that expertise resides at the sectoral level, which provides a good vehicle to promote cooperation.
The US suggested that the COP could be a venue for catalyzing and encouraging complementary actions, including those by non-state actors.
Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, informed that the group had been, and still was, working on consolidating options proposed by its members in the Geneva text.
While thanking Chair Dovland, CHINA expressed deep disappointment at slow progress regarding Annex I parties’ further commitments.
France, on behalf of the EU, said Annex I countries should take the lead on reduction commitments, and called for a global market with liquidity, clear price signals, and cost-effective means to reduce emissions.
On the draft decision inviting Parties to provide the necessary financial support for the workshops and other activities, the G-77/CHINA said this refers to Annex I Parties.
 NEW ZEALAND stated that all suggested policies and measures should be given proper consideration, supported Canada\'s list of selection criteria, and suggested the inclusion of coal sequestration techniques and energy market reform.
The G-77/CHINA said the nature and scope of emissions trading must be determined before operational details are worked out.
CHINA, with PAKISTAN and ARGENTINA, requested references to the BAP and, with Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, and others, to previous COP decisions.
JAPAN, BENIN and SOUTH AFRICA supported the idea of standardized baselines, with SOUTH AFRICA adding that these should be used in conjunction with existing additionality tools.
JAPAN, the EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS supported the idea of an IPCC expert meeting on harvested products.
  Co-Facilitator Andrei Marcu (Panama) presented text drafted the previous evening by the G-77/China, the EU and the Umbrella Group, to which parties agreed.
Ecuador, for the ALBA, expressed concern with the lack of fulfillment of the legal mandate to achieve ambitious emission reductions.
The US said cooperative action to promote and enhance technology development and transfer should include both the Technology Mechanism and financial mechanism.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and BOLIVIA, said clarifying the mandate of the legal matters group was necessary in order to continue discussions.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, supported: an informative session on the status of the Kyoto Protocol amendment every time the ADP meets; establishment of MRV for means of implementation, and a contact group on finance.
TUVALU and ARGENTINA questioned whether a final decision on Article 3.4 was appropriate at COP-6.
SAUDI ARABIA called for a bottom-up approach in defining a long-term goal.
The EU proposed considering a process through which new gases could be added by using COP/MOP decisions.
AUSTRALIA said an MCP could play a role in interpreting or clarifying obligations through practical assistance rather than judicial-style interpretation.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA stressed the need to ensure that LULUCF rules do not lead to a decrease in the level of ambition and to understand the implications of each option on environmental integrity.
SAUDI ARABIA asked that the text reflect that public funding is the main means of covering mitigation costs.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and ETHIOPIA expressed interest in multiplication of factors.
OPEC countries and China said that the protocol negotiations were premature since neither the best available scientific information nor the review of Annex I Parties\' communications provided a sufficient basis for negotiations.
 \t\t\tThe EU, supported by many others, called for a more ambitious COP 13 \t\t\tdecision less focused on technical and methodological issues, \t\t\tstressing co-benefits, voluntary participation and a pilot phase.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the \t\tmutual influence of the different processes on future commitments and \t\tcalled for a forum for frank and comprehensive dialogue.
 \t\t\tDrawing \t\t\tattention to AP6, REPUBLIC OF KOREA identified the need to create \t\t\tfavorable market conditions for technology transfer.
On the G-77/CHINA suggestion to make the reports, conclusions and recommendations available to the public upon request, IRAN and the US noted the Secretariat\'s existing dissemination procedures.
The EU called for exploring: why existing bodies are e2 80 9cnot delivering e2 80 9d on capacity building; ways to enhance collaboration between existing bodies; and how to strengthen the Durban Forum.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, supported a short meeting of only the AWGs.
KUWAIT called for an examination of the connection between the proposed protocol and the work of AG13.
On promoting co-benefits for CDM projects, CANADA said projects with co-benefits receive a premium from the market and proposed including in the project documents a place for listing co-benefits.
The PHILIPPINES noted that the activities of other intergovernmental agencies increases confusion between AIJ and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and said the COP is the only body mandated to undertake activities under the FCCC.
Australia, Japan and the US called for a single transparency system applicable to all.
BRAZIL lamented that parts of the text are not in line with the Lima outcome, such as references to “evolving CBDR.” c2 a0 He supported undertakings by all Parties.
The Secretariat explained that proposals had been received from: Australia; Belarus; Bolivia, for several countries; Colombia; Japan; the EU; New Zealand; Papua New Guinea; the Philippines; China, for several non-Annex I countries; and two from Tuvalu.
The EU said it will complete ratification of the Doha Amendment as early in 2015 as possible.
MALAYSIA supported voluntary NAMAs, contingent on MRV of support.
BELGIUM presented his country’s target to reduce emissions from sectors covered by the EU ETS by 15% compared to 2005 levels in the context of the EU’s 2020 climate and energy package.
ARGENTINA opposed language on sectoral mitigation.
JAPAN supported using other criteria and the NETHERLANDS supported further consideration of ex officio representation for SBI and SBSTA.
KUWAIT, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA sought a clear mandate for the contact group to consider Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
The EU welcomed advances made on technology transfer, research and systematic observation, and Annex I UNFCCC reporting guidelines, as well as the outcomes on standardized baselines and CCS under the CDM.
On text requesting the Secretariat to prepare a document on using the TAR to facilitate consideration of routine agenda items in the future, the G-77/CHINA proposed an amendment to request submissions from Parties instead.
ARGENTINA suggested the dialogue look at the possible early into force of the Agreement.
The EU said that emission reductions in the aviation sector do not count towards its Kyoto Protocol commitments.
CANADA, with MALAYSIA and AUSTRALIA, advocated discussing climate change research in addition to systematic observation.
NIGERIA and VENEZUELA said the mechanisms would be insufficient to ameliorate the impacts of climate change.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed negotiating adaptation and mitigation matters in a balanced manner and ensuring a “package” can be reached by 2018.
Criticizing the proposed title \t\t\t 93current knowledge about observed impacts in natural, managed and \t\t\thuman systems 94 as too academic, the UK suggested simplifying the \t\t\tlanguage, and also removing the wording 93current knowledge.
CANADA sought a clarification on the idea of "pre-commitment review of the assigned amount."
 The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC proposed a reference to “human” capacity building.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA stressed the need for climate compatible development plans, noting that many deforestation drivers come from outside the forest.
GHANA requested consideration of how technology action plans and NAMAs relate to each other.
ALGERIA said Annex I parties should agree to a second commitment period and then engage major emitters in a comprehensive agreement.
ARGENTINA stressed that work on sectoral approaches must not lead to new commitments for developing countries.
The EU called for exploring possibilities to reduce the cost of monitoring by expanding the use of tiered projects.
The PHILLIPINES suggested broadening the proposal to also cover adaptation.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by JAPAN, insisted that the workshop should focus only on Annex I Parties 92 projections.
The SBI adopted conclusions (FCCC/SBI/2008/L.17) and draft decisions for the COP and COP/MOP (FCCC/SBI/2008/L.17/Add.1/Rev.1 and Add.2/Rev.1), with a minor oral amendment to a footnote by JAPAN.
TUVALU proposed the inclusion of the principle of state responsibility.
ECUADOR underscored that the AWG-LCA should not conclude its work before the Bali Action Plan mandate on developed country mitigation has been fulfilled.
On linkages, INDIA stressed the need to establish linkages between ADP Workstreams 1 and 2, and to consider how the work of the Subsidiary Bodies, the IPCC and the 2013-2015 Review will inform the 2015 agreement.
SAUDI ARABIA recalled that the co-facilitators were asked to report to the SBI Chair that, due to linkages between this agenda item and the item on a public registry referred to in Paris Agreement Article 4.12, some parties had requested that the two items be merged.
\t\tNORWAY and JAPAN stressed the importance of an inclusive one-track \t\tprocess.
A contact group was supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/China, and opposed by Australia, Switzerland, the EU and Norway.
CHINA called for acknowledging that South-South cooperation is not a commitment of parties and, with INDIA and ALGERIA, suggested mobilization and provision of finance be enhanced not e2 80 9cin coordination with, e2 80 9d but rather as e2 80 9cadditional to, e2 80 9d official development assistance.
CHINA proposed, and parties agreed, to start with preambular paragraphs.
The EU said it is unclear if the CDM would continue if there was a gap, but said it is up to parties to decide, and that he believes the CDM could continue.
TUVALU asked where the carbon price signal would come from if the Protocol does not exist in the post-2012 period and how to ensure robustness in terms of issues, such as expert review teams and compliance.
The US urged the IPCC to remain flexible and responsive to SBSTA.
CANADA stressed "normal" UN procedures by which documents are seen before they are adopted.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that a technical phase feed into a political discussion, and that a chair’s summary of the global stocktake provide the basis for increased ambition by parties.
CANADA noted the relevance of spillover effects to all parties, but suggested priority consideration for poorer countries.
IRAN, for the G-77/CHINA, supported completion of work forwarded from COP-6 Part II, adding that this is not the right forum to raise the question of new or additional commitments by developing countries.
The US stressed that agreement on binding language on MRV would provide a way of evaluating obligations, and that a long-term perspective is important in measuring adequate stringency.
The EU, \t\tJapan, Australia, US and Canada agreed to drop a reference to a \t\tthree-year project preparation period and proposed an additional \t\treference, stating that any extensions will not imply additional GEF \t\tfunding.
Outlining their proposal, Tanzania, for the G-77/China, highlighted, inter alia: an expert group on capacity building; a plan of action for implementation of the capacity-building framework; and performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the framework.
One party observed that Decision 5/CP.16 (further guidance for the operation of the LDCF), requesting the GEF to support the ongoing implementation of NAPAs to facilitate the implementation of the remaining elements of the LDC work programme, was too vague.
 CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, INDIA and KUWAIT, made a point of order, emphasizing a potential conflict of interest given that COP Vice-President Van Lierop was nominated to the COP Bureau by the Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC).
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed a reference to the private sector addressing a range of priority needs, stressing lack of evidence of the private sector’s contribution to capacity building.
On consent by Parties, the G-77/CHINA noted the importance of doing so especially in situations where the concerned Parties did not trigger the process, saying this is necessary for fairness and appropriate acceptance of the conclusions.
The European Union (EU) identified the need to agree on a single, fair and comprehensive legal framework under the ADP, and close the pre-2020 ambition gap.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that the text respects the Convention’s provisions and principles.
On future organization of work under the ADP, the Philippines, for LMDC, supported by Malaysia, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the roundtables were moving from the intent of assisting parties to share conceptual views on existing elements to introducing new elements.
SWITZERLAND called for references to underlying assumptions and efforts, and fairness considerations.
\t\t\tThe first related to an objection raised by Argentina over the UK’s \t\t\tinclusion of the Falkland Islands/Islas Malvinas and other South \t\t\tAtlantic islands in its national communications.
SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA inquired whether the consideration of this issue is under the mandate of the SBI.
VIET NAM described CDBR and differentiation as gateways to greater ambition.
On Thursday, 4 December, Switzerland, speaking for the Parties of the 2001 Bonn Political Declaration on Financing for Developing Countries (Canada, the EU, Iceland, New Zealand, Norway and Switzerland), reaffirmed the political commitment made during COP-6 part II to provide US$410 million to developing countries on an annual basis, beginning in 2005.
The EU said that each text should mature as much as needed, warning against a focus on the number of iterations.
Concerning measures to address reversion of exhausted plantations to non-forest areas, BRAZIL specified that the proposal related to afforestation and reforestation, and suggested marking it a first commitment period issue.
The US, with Japan, Germany and Norway, but opposed by Saudi Arabia, called for deleting reference to MoUs.
TANZANIA highlighted the G-77/China proposal, which would call upon Parties to reduce emissions of three gases and make efforts to control and phase out the other three.
The G-77/CHINA proposed text to consolidate paragraphs 91 and 92 on scaling up climate finance to provide MOI and on the scale of resources.
The UMBRELLA GROUP urged transition to a full implementation phase of post-2012 undertakings.
The US stressed the importance of options for the treatment of confidential data and encouraged transparency of inventory data.
She explained that the plan includes adaptation, mitigation and enabling conditions and estimated that US$12 billion would be needed for implementation.
Zimbabwe, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for an article defining communication of the different types of undertakings, with flexibility for parties with limited capacity.
The G-77/CHINA said this review was the function of the COP, that it had not been requested, and that the funding used should have gone to developing countries.
The US identified the need to establish a structure for significant financial support for developing countries, and for an effective use of adaptation resources with the focus on the most vulnerable countries.
AOSIS presented key issues to be considered for the Structured Expert Dialogue, including: impacts and risks at different levels of warming, impacts and risks at different levels of carbon dioxide concentrations, and the risk of irreversible changes in physical, ecological and human systems.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, described the number of INDCs as “a demonstration of our collective commitments” and sought a way to reflect differentiation in line with modern day realities.
The Chair moved to adopt the conclusions as amended, but SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA strongly opposed this proposal and called its adoption “illegal.” BRAZIL’s suggested text that maintained the EU proposal and added that the SBSTA would continue to work on this issue during its fifth session, which was adopted.
Outlining his country’s proposal for a new protocol that supplements the Kyoto Protocol, TUVALU highlighted the contact group as a step toward the adoption of a legally-binding instrument in Durban.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and others, proposed deletion of the reference to the implementation of all elements of  Decision 1/CP.17, preferring progress by the ADP e2 80 9cto advance its work.
The US said the principle section was not critical and could therefore be deleted.
SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL and CHINA cautioned against “cherry picking” from the SED report.
The US explained that work in Durban was “painstakingly negotiated.”
CANADA suggested moving certain paragraphs on financing to the contact group on finance and, with AUSTRALIA, expressed interest in the South African proposal on the life-cycle of NAMAs.
TUVALU, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, stressed that the text had already been subject to extensive consultations.
AUSTRALIA suggested considering GDP growth of the economy, population growth, fossil fuel trade and emission intensity of exports.
UKRAINE preferred the option of no new arrangements, or a permanent forum as an alternative.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by the EU, preferred not to refer to the results of the AWG-LCA but to use language on “other relevant UNFCCC bodies.” CANADA said it “did not make sense” to selectively list some bodies, and called for reflecting all bodies.
BRAZIL supported further work on new ideas on appropriate market-based mechanisms, which would not be based on the generation of offsets.
  The US called for an effective outcome that is economically sustainable and consistent with sustainable development.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, looked forward to the further operationalization of the Adaptation Fund through direct access procedures.
The US said it was unclear what the briefing sessions would achieve.
TUVALU cautioned that a sequence that puts mitigation first would neglect the support and adaptation aspects.
The US highlighted the need for guidance on definitions and clarity.
After lengthy negotiations, text was agreed including special reference to Africa, LDCs and SIDS regarding streamlining of the CDM process.
The G-77/CHINA proposed convening a workshop in Warsaw to address unilateral measures, which was opposed by the EU and others, who maintained that the issue is already being addressed in the Forum’s discussions.
Not opposing the use of regional centers to disseminate information, SWITZERLAND stressed the need for integrity in the process of selecting information to be disseminated.
The G-77/CHINA said the Group would consult internally on this matter.
She said that additional measures include greenhouse gas emissions trading, the EU taxation framework for energy products and JI.
The EU expressed support for the research dialogue and the IPCC special event, which he said could be a key input to the global stocktake.
On  , the EU noted that failing to address the issue of AAU surplus and using either current rules or unconstrained gross-net accounting rules for LULUCF would result in increased emissions from the 1990 baseline.
The EU highlighted that the Party-to-Party triggering option was useful for the effectiveness and balance of the compliance procedures.
The US, supported by the Netherlands, warned that if the question of the financial mechanism is left open, it will sow doubt among people outside this process.
He informed the SBSTA that agreement had been reached the previous night, with the exception of a G-77/CHINA proposal to amend three references in the text to relate specifically to "Annex I" Parties.
The EU and other developed countries highlighted the AWG-KP’s work programme, which also includes other issues such as the flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF.
NEW ZEALAND had difficulty with a reference concerning targets in the Declaration and his country’s support must be qualified by the view that it can only be advanced on the basis of a least cost approach.
The US said he preferred deferring consideration of the methodological aspects related to emissions from international transport from SB-17 to SB-18.
NEW ZEALAND said the agreement should include elements that are durable and universal.
The European Union (EU) said the workshop should “help understanding the apparent gaps” in clarity.
The US favored the second formulation, noting the first option limits the scope of the paragraph.
The EU wanted to retain it.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said GEF reforms are encouraging but inadequate, noting the need to strengthen urgent priorities for beneficiaries.
The EU noted the gaps in existing data, stressing that data was a crucial input to the negotiating process.
The EU presented a proposal to delete redundant language.
CHINA expressed disappointment with the GEF paper, and GHANA said he will not consider the paper because it does not conform to the terms of reference given by the COP in decision 4/CP.13.
CANADA stated that models provide necessary but not sufficient information for policy making and constitute one of a number of tools available to policy makers.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stressed that state-of-the-art technology is necessary for decoupling economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions.
The UK and Peru preferred reference to “scientific” rather than “research” organizations, which was ultimately accepted.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, said this would politicize the process and that the legal appreciation should be left to the compliance body.
The meeting involved leaders from the G8 countries, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Mexico, South Africa and the EU.
The US said experiences in the past ten years have shown that markets have enabled more cost-effective emission reductions and that the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) has stimulated clean investment, stressing that the proposals on new market mechanisms could make an important contribution to the Convention’s ultimate objective.
KOREA suggested that the IPCC try to work more economically by avoiding duplication of work and enhanced data sharing.
SAUDI ARABIA called for adaptation text to address the impact of response measures, with the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, and NORWAY opposing.
INDIA called for maintaining the “delicate balance” of Durban, including in relation to the completion of the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
Norway, with the US and the EU, underscored the importance of further guidance on safeguards information systems.
AOSIS proposed also registering support measures and said financing could come from auctioning of AAUs.
With regard to the IPCC’s long-term work programme, the US suggested giving priority to regional and local impacts, and urged securing funds and resources for timely translation and distribution of documents.
BRAZIL suggested, inter alia, having one framing dialogue for each element of the global stocktake’s scope during the technical/analytical phase.
The EU, G-77/ CHINA and SWITZERLAND emphasized the need to design guidelines according to specific country needs.
The US and the EU emphasized that: developed countries have provided assurance that there will be no gap; a work programme on long-term finance has been established; and developed countries are fully committed to providing fast-start finance.
 In Section VIII of the decision (FCCC/AWGLCA/2011/L.4), the COP invites Annex I parties, that are in a position to do so, to make available the capacity-building, financial, technical and technology transfer assistance for Annex I parties with EIT; and agrees to continue with the discussion on modalities for the provision of support for mitigation, adaptation, technology development and transfer, capacity-building and finance to parties whose special circumstances are recognized by the COP.
CHINA, supported by VENEZUELA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, BRAZIL, NIGERIA and BAHRAIN, expressed sympathy for Tuvalu’s proposal, but opposed discussing such proposed Protocol amendments that “do not enhance the Protocol.” He said issues such as share of proceeds and compliance could be discussed further, and suggested that: proposals related to Protocol Article 3.9 be referred to the AWG-KP; and a “limited number” of other proposals be selected for discussion under this agenda item.
URUGUAY noted its willingness to participate in CDM sinks activities, and highlighted national efforts to prepare for the CDM.
SWITZERLAND highlighted achievement of his country\'s target of an 8% reduction below 1990 levels under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s first commitment period through a combination of domestic measures, net sinks and international offsets.
CANADA said the Convention should play a catalytic role and urged linkages between the adaptation and risk reduction communities.
The EU identified areas of convergence including RD&amp;D, capacity building, policy frameworks and enabling environments.
The US suggested "establish and elaborate a process...."
BRAZIL, TANZANIA, SOUTH AFRICA, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, SIERRA LEONE, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, MEXICO and others highlighted the importance of addressing capacity building needs and, with SWITZERLAND, supported the first option on the scope, which states that capacity building shall be enhanced with regard to the building blocks of the BAP and all aspects of the Convention, as well as emerging needs.
CAMBODIA said the use of sinks is not an equally sustainable alternative in mitigating climate change.
Delegates then considered the EU 92s proposed text on the decision to facilitate cooperation of Annex I and other interested Parties to enhance the individual and combined effectiveness of P&amp;Ms.
Co-Chair Cooper requested the US, G-77/China, and EU to consult informally to seek agreement on the outstanding paragraphs of the draft conclusions.
The EU suggested postponement of the decision until the next meeting of the SBI.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, opposed including specific quantitative financial commitments, with AUSTRALIA suggesting enabling environments, and not quantitative targets, motivate private sector engagement.
The US noted the importance of using existing institutions.
The EU outlined plans to organize a Talanoa event in Brussels on 13 June that will bring together more than 400 stakeholders, and called for clarity on how messages from the Dialogue’s preparatory phase will be taken into account during the political phase.
The G-77/CHINA called for a decision on compliance at COP-4.
BRAZIL suggested that the Secretariat cluster the issues in the Geneva text.
The EU drew attention to their paper “Impacts, Emission Pathways, Mitigation Options and Costs.” Saying that the IPCC provides authoritative information on climate change, he supported: holding a workshop with IPCC experts to address questions submitted by parties; and considering other sources of information with standards comparable to those of the IPCC.
On the request to the IPCC to provide a special report on the impact of a temperature increase of 1.5 c2 b0C, SAUDI ARABIA and others questioned its added value beyond the IPCC assessment reports.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU, proposed that the TEMs also identify the negative impacts of response measures.
The EU highlighted that its overall goal for Cancun is to make as much progress as possible towards an ambitious, comprehensive and legally-binding outcome in line with the 2ºC objective.
 Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the objective in Cancun to agree on the amendment of the Kyoto Protocol as mandated by Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I further commitments) and on consequential amendments to ensure the effectiveness of the Protocol.
The IPCC should provide a view of whether existing proposals, including the AOSIS draft protocol, will really avert climate change and whether an effort with real economic costs will have real environmental benefits.
The Republic of Korea and Ethiopia preferred retaining text on multiplication factors, and the EU said discounting should be seen in the wider context of, inter alia, benchmarks, and should be retained in the text.
The EU emphasized the importance of determining capacity-building needs of developing countries.
ITALY offered to host the intersessional consultation, suggesting it take place in October.
BRAZIL said \t\tparts of it may be outside the contact group 92s mandate, but supported \t\tassessment of DOEs.
TUVALU stressed the importance of full national communications to communicate vulnerability and adaptation needs.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and CHINA, stated that the G-77 was still discussing this issue.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS expressed disappointment at recent emissions data revealing that many Annex I Parties are significantly exceeding 1990 levels.
SWITZERLAND requested bracketing the entire article.
The US called for elements, inter alia, on a nationally determined contribution registry, joint implementation, and reporting and review.
He reiterated the US position on the designation of half the members by Annex I Parties and the other half by non-Annex I Parties and suggested brackets around "equitable geographical distribution."
Regarding the sections on competitiveness, market size and structure, relationship to domestic policies, and liability for sales of non-surplus units, the G-77/CHINA said such headings are not neutral and recommended changing them.
The US said that inputs contained in the “purpose” section of the table were not mutually exclusive and could apply to different parties according to their circumstances.
Participants accepted wording suggested by the US and amended by the EU and the G-77/China for a paragraph inviting the IPCC, in conjunction with SBSTA-11, to provide an in-depth progress report and a special side event on the draft IPCC Special Report on LULUCF.
AOSIS stressed the need for social and environmental project impact assessments.
Several developing countries supported the G-77/China 92s call for the formation of a contact group at this session, while the US, Australia, Switzerland and Canada preferred forming it at SB-13.
On LULUCF under the CDM, UGANDA supported amending the rules, citing socioeconomic development and mitigation benefits of forests.
 \t\tOn methodologies, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, cautioned against \t\tbroadening CDM methodologies if it creates loopholes.
Chile, for AILAC, among others, supported the principle of e2 80 9cno backsliding.
Submissions were made by Brazil on QELROs and by AOSIS, Brazil and the African Group on carryover of surplus AAUs.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for informal and reflection notes, suggesting that some decisions could be taken at COP 23.
NORWAY noted that ambitious targets via legally binding commitments can only be achieved through efforts such as differentiation, equitable burden sharing, comprehensive treatment of sources and sinks, and coordination of economic instruments.
COLOMBIA highlighted the potential of indigenous private sector projects.
KENYA said renewable energy technology should be \t\tmanufactured locally.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, opposed a paragraph stating that COP 23 will address the need for procedural clarity regarding draft decisions at CMA 1 relating to the response measures forum and recognition of adaptation efforts.
The EU introduced a proposal on international emissions trading, noting differences to the Canadian proposal in addressing: supplementarity; environmental effectiveness, compliance mechanisms, market transparency, risk and liability rules, reporting requirements, and eligibility.
AUSTRALIA called for ambitious mid- and long-term global goals, and stressed their own unconditional commitment to reduce emissions by 5% below 2000 levels by 2020, and by 15% in the context of global mitigation.
The US stated that it was unable to continue discussion on this issue pending the outcome of deliberations in other contact groups.
The US said such a workshop should focus on experiences.
NORWAY welcomed the Chair\'s text, but described the mitigation part as “too loose” in relation to developing country actions and said that there should be a “clear message” on how to reach a legally-binding agreement.
Saudi Arabia expressed reservations regarding reference to “carbon budgets” and “the long-term temperature goal.” Following informal consultations, alternative text was proposed on “modeled emission pathways compatible with the Paris Agreement, including the long-term temperature goal, and higher warming levels, taking into account CO2, non-CO2 and SLCFs (including peaking, rates of change and balancing sources and sinks and cumulative emissions).” The UK requested that reference to carbon budgets be included in the guidance for authors.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, indicated that the workshop must be based on language in Decision 1/CP.17 and not on the provisional agenda, stressing the need for a broader discussion on the ambition issue.
ARGENTINA requested clarification of the data used to determine the forest management value and noted concern that this decision had taken two years to conclude.
NIGERIA said the Special Report should include definitions of baselines for carbon stocks in sinks and should ensure that policy options are consistent with other convention requirements.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, looked forward to the synthesis report capturing discussions.
VENEZUELA suggested a roundtable discussion to separate political issues from the legal discussions.
BRAZIL, \t\ton behalf of the G-77/China, and opposed by CANADA, the EU, RUSSIAN \t\tFEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, proposed insertion of additional text on \t\tfactoring out containing specific reference to the draft COP/MOP \t\tdecision on LULUCF, decision 11/CP.7 (LULUCF), and other related LULUCF \t\tissues.
BRAZIL urged for limiting crediting to up to twenty years.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and CHILE, and opposed by the US, preferred restating the extent to which developing countries e2 80 99 implementation depends on the level of support.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored, inter alia, action on the adaptation framework for implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs), technology and capacity building programmes, and finance that is reliable and additional to ODA.
AUSTRALIA stated a second commitment period should be a transitional phase towards a broader, universal agreement.
CHINA said \t\tdouble accounting remains germane and the IPCC should address this \t\tmatter.
The  G-77/CHINA requested more time to consider this text.
IRAN, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about the conditionality of GEF funding.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed an initial mapping of current requirements for parties’ submissions and identifying and subsequently addressing any gaps in the common modalities and guidelines.
Outlining a facilitative role for the CTC, the EU proposed a “light” CTC structure entailing a small, cost-effective team with a clear and effective institutional structure.
INDIA said that Parties should adhere to the language in the Protocol and keep in mind work undertaken in other contact groups.
BURKINA FASO called for an ad hoc committee, supported by the Secretariat, to assess Annex I Party efforts and report to the COP.
NORWAY called for explicit reference to \t\tbunker fuels.
The COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS underscored the need for national monitoring systems.
 In the afternoon, the EU proposed that the budget be submitted for consideration “and discussion” and that the informal intersessional consultations will facilitate “possible” agreement on the budget.
On sectoral approaches, JAPAN stressed these as a valuable tool that would not replace national targets.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for: reaching agreement on a five-year second commitment period with 1990 as the single, legally-binding, base year; agreeing on LULUCF accounting rules; identifying feasible ways to address surplus assigned amount units (AAUs); agreeing on a transparent process to transform mitigation pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs); and increasing the aggregate level of ambition.
The EU did not support a compensation mechanism for financial losses of oil producing countries.
VENEZUELA, supported by COSTA RICA, suggested “historical responsibility” as an additional criterion for differentiation.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA identified governance as a “loaded” word.
NORWAY identified SBSTA as the established channel for communication.
Capacity building: The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICA GROUP and others said capacity building is necessary to ensure meaningful participation from developing countries.
JAPAN called for a clear and concise vision and reiterated support for a fair and effective single legal framework.
JAPAN and CANADA noted the need to specify that the payment would be postponed until the first issuance of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs).
 Many delegations, including the EU, the US, CANADA, ARGENTINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, BANGLADESH, NORWAY, FIJI, URUGUAY, MAURITIUS, JAPAN, BENIN, SWITZERLAND, MYANMAR, BULGARIA, SAMOA, MICRONESIA, the MALDIVES, NIUE, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and COSTA RICA, endorsed the SAR as the most comprehensive assessment of scientific information on climate change available and viewed it as a basis for urgent action.
Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), called for living up to the promises made in Paris and stressed that delaying work beyond COP 24 is not an option.
The EU reiterated its position favoring: a 15% cut in emissions by developed countries, jointly or individually, by 2010; specific policies and measures (P&amp;Ms); and consideration of new commitments for developing countries under Article 7.1(a) in the future.
BOLIVIA suggested that the quantification of developed countries’ historical climate debt should form the basis for MRV of support to developing countries, and address the need for, inter alia: response measures for climate change-induced migration; technology needs as a consequence of foregone development opportunities; forest-related measures; and changes in legislation.
Lesotho, for LDCs, reiterated its support for two-track negotiations.
SAUDI ARABIA reiterated that the definition of vulnerable countries as laid down in Convention Article 4.8 (adverse effects/impacts of response measures) should be used and no additional listing of countries should be created.
\t\t\tEarly on Friday morning, the US, noting all the new paragraphs on \t\t\tadaptation, proposed to include the word 93adaptation 94 in Section C 92s \t\t\ttitle, but WGII did not agree on this proposal.
On identification of decision text, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said this step should be preceded by a discussion on substance.
The European Union (EU) looked forward to the next steps.
AUSTRALIA noted possible options of Bangkok, Geneva and Lyon identified by the Secretariat.
NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for a two-phase process.
On paragraphs 132.6 on global collaboration on research, development and demonstration of technologies, and 133 and 133.1 on institutional arrangements for technology development and transfer, INDIA cautioned against interpretive approaches to consolidation, preferring mechanical streamlining, with TUVALU agreeing that the proposed consolidation of 133 and 133.1 would change the meaning of the paragraphs.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested that Annex I countries reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2020 from 1990 levels and by 80% by 2050.
SAUDI ARABIA said \t\tinformation exchange should be in accordance with UNFCCC Article 4 \t\t(commitments).
On the provisional agenda for COP-6, the US, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SAUDI ARABIA said the proposed new sub-item on P&amp;Ms should await SBSTA 92s consideration.
Several delegates, including GERMANY, \t\tAUSTRIA, EGYPT, the UK, and the NETHERLANDS, proposed amendments to text \t\tin the table caption that would state that more research and development \t\tcould reduce costs and improve reliability and safety.
The EU opposed the inclusion of reforestation of lands with forests in exhaustion and said forest management should be addressed under REDD-plus.
The US stressed the importance of taking into account country-driven approaches.
Since many small island States are only a few meters above sea level, they called for immediate adoption of the AOSIS protocol.
The draft proposal on the status of the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.9 (LDCs) was agreed with brackets remaining around the reference to the three other decisions on LDCs, at the request of the US.
AOSIS, with Bangladesh, highlighted the right to survival.
China, for BASIC, underlined that Doha must achieve a legally-binding and fully ratifiable second commitment period, and said developed countries that are not party to the Kyoto Protocol or do not intend to participate in the second commitment period should not have access to the CDM.
AOSIS and China supported strengthening the mandate of the Adaptation Committee to oversee UNFCCC adaptation efforts.
The US highlighted divergence regarding financing, with Japan underscoring opposing views as to whether a new institution should be established.
Liechtenstein, for the EIG, highlighted the need for further progress on transforming pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs), commitment period length and the carryover of surplus AAUs.
The US said one of the bases of the inadequacy of Articles 4.2 (a) and (b) is the insufficient number of Parties subject to those commitments.
Bolivia, speaking on behalf of the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), opposed convening a spin-off group on legal issues as it might lead to a “legal vacuum” by giving some countries the opportunity to opt out of future agreements.
The COOK ISLANDS, for AOSIS, underscored the need for financial and technical resources.
The LDCs and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, opposed by the EIG, called for a pre-sessional roundtable.
G-77/CHINA said technology transfer to developing countries has been ineffective.
The AFRICAN GROUP and LMDCs underlined that developed country parties should have quantified economy-wide targets.
IRAN noted that countries also have needs determined by their unique circumstances.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION \t\tcalled for formal negotiations within the COP, the subsidiary bodies or \t\twithin a new expert group.
 \t\tIn the question-and-answer session, delegates discussed issues such as \t\tcosts, the inclusion of non-CO2 gases in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme \t\t(ETS), and the agriculture sector.
The US, Norway and Australia suggested that text on strengthening the Technology Mechanism/institutional arrangements should be addressed in decision text.
The AFRICA GROUP underscored the importance of an integrated approach to capacity building and called for guidance from the subsidiary bodies to UN agencies working on such activities.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and ALGERIA, stressed the need for additional work on the historical responsibility for climate change and on equity issues.
CHINA, supported by NIGERIA, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC, OMAN and BRAZIL, stressed the need to mobilize funding for the Adaptation Fund.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stressed the importance of operational guidelines, including: a balanced approach to finance, with equal footing for adaptation and mitigation; a practical approach for mobilizing finance from the public and private sectors; and creating synergies among different financial institutions.
GERMANY urged donor countries to provide the financial means to assure the operations of the GEF.
The EU emphasized that the Convention e2 80 99s reporting framework provides an important basis for harmonizing reporting regulations.
The EU, IRAN, SOUTH AFRICA and SAUDI ARABIA said \t\tthe review should address finance and adaptation.
e2 80 9d The US proposed referring to e2 80 9cactions.
The US supported parallel progress on the mechanisms with priority given to the CDM.
The EU suggested focusing on input to the GEF on its fifth replenishment.
The EU said that emissions permits could not replace P&amp;Ms. AUSTRALIA said that trading regimes would need to address equity concerns.
COP President Espinosa noted that the proposed protocols relate to issues that are being discussed under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and stressed the importance of working in Cancun towards a consolidated package of decisions “that is within our reach.” She proposed, and parties agreed, to establish a contact group chaired by Michael Zammit Cutajar (Malta) to focus on protocol proposals by Grenada, for AOSIS, Costa Rica and Tuvalu, being the three proposals for which such discussion space has been requested.
The EU explained that their preferred outcome from Copenhagen would be an integrated instrument that incorporates key elements from the Protocol, including: binding QELROs; robust reporting consistent with Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8; strong compliance; and the flexibility mechanisms.
 \t\tNoting the lack of resolution on the \t\tlow-stabilization scenario, Australia, supported by the US, stressed the \t\tneed to develop new scenarios on clear scientific and technical grounds.
ICELAND and JAPAN underscored sectoral approaches.
 Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, welcomed the extension of the LEG and requested parties support the LEG in its efforts to enhance the capacity of LDCs to implement NAPAs.
 the Philippines, for the G-77/China, raised the operationalization of the Adaptation Fund as an issue on which it was seeking further discussion.
CHILE, also speaking for Peru, Colombia, Costa Rica, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic and Panama, called for negotiations to begin as soon as possible based on the Chair’s text, highlighting the importance of identifying points of common understanding.
 This item (FCCC/SBSTA/2016/INF.10) was first addressed in the SBSTA plenary on Monday, 7 November, and subsequently discussed in informal consultations co-facilitated by Shereen D’Souza (US) and Ainun Nishat (Bangladesh).
The G-77/CHINA suggested that issues in the annex be addressed in the body of the text.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that the AWG-KP’s mandate did not include developing country action.
 \t\tOn the membership of constituencies \t\tinvolved in the climate change process, the US raised concerns regarding \t\tthe criteria for membership of the Research and Independent NGOs (RINGOs).
It also considered a draft annex setting out basic elements of national systems under Protocol Article 5.1 (national systems for GHG emissions and removals) that had been presented by JAPAN and amended after informal consultations by a smaller group of Parties.
SAUDI ARABIA, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, said the paragraphs were applicable to all elements of reporting and should be retained.
 INDIA said that in order to reduce scientific uncertainties, the role of particulate materials in the atmosphere and tropospheric ozone would need to be addressed.
Cuba, for ALBA, said: the Kyoto Protocol must be safeguarded; the fate of Doha depends on the fate of the second commitment period; the new regime must not be weaker than the existing one; and historical responsibility and the use of common space cannot be sidelined.
On the uncertainties surrounding the new mechanisms, the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES (AOSIS) called for a non-compliance regime and noted their supplementary role.
 On definitions and modalities for including LULUCF under the CDM, BRAZIL, for the G-77/ CHINA, stressed that the outcome of the Orvieto workshop held in April, which detailed draft terms of reference (TOR) and agenda for work, served as a basis for negotiation only.
On the Chair’s “document 4” (FCCC/KP/AWG/2009/4), the EU, SWITZERLAND and others stressed the importance of considering the document.
On markets, CHINA said they should not be used to pass responsibility to developing countries, and SAUDI ARABIA and the LDCs stressed that markets should not substitute mitigation activities in developed countries.
KENYA criticized GEF conditionality.
The EIG explained that the instrument must also address adaptation and means of implementation.
CHINA said developed countries are "duty bound" to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and expressed disappointment that the Protocol has not yet entered into force.
Furthermore, parties agreed to discuss proposals by NEW ZEALAND to merge options 1 and 2 under paragraph 176 on no ex ante consideration process, and removing internal repetition under option 3 on an ex ante consideration process.
The MALDIVES doubted whether SBSTA could meet its goals and suggested omitting discussion on AIJ and bunker fuels in favor of discussion on transfer of technology.
The EU called for revised guidelines for non-Annex I national communications and indicated that the key principles of such guidelines must be resolved in Cancún.
 The US said all countries can further their activities for growth and protect the environment at the same time.
 JAPAN said work on CO2 emissions will be required as the ultimate solution.
NEW ZEALAND called for analyzing a range of factors and identifying varying national targets around the aggregate range, but the GAMBIA warned against allowing country-specific circumstances to delay progress.
It was considered then in informal consultations co-facilitated by Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
India, for the G-77/China, noted that there may be substantive outcomes on technology from Copenhagen and suggested tailoring the EGTT’s work programme to consider such outcomes.
 In discussing this proposal, the EU, supported by SLOVENIA, proposed that an MCP could be a “standing” group.
The G-77/CHINA observed that the fixed amount of up to US$500,000 for national communications does not take into account the differing realities of countries.
The EU proposed adding reference to different national circumstances wherever CBDRRC appears.
JAPAN questioned reference to measuring demonstrable progress by means of criteria and quantitative parameters.
SOUTH AFRICA, with BRAZIL, CHINA and SINGAPORE, underscored that NAMAs are country-driven, diverse and must respect national circumstances; and expressed reservations about their standardization.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US, NORWAY and JAPAN called for a mechanism that is applicable to all.
With CANADA and others, the G-77/CHINA called for Barcelona to be “the end of the road” for the LULUCF accounting discussions.
The AFRICAN GROUP supported limited use of carbon markets, and highlighted the need for establishing accounting rules and processes for technology transfer, among other measures.
 The US emphasized the importance of technology needs assessments and an integrated approach.
MALI noted that his country has prepared 30 CDM projects over the last 2 years, but only one has been approved, and called for improvement of the approvals procedure.
 \t\tDuring the AWG 92s closing plenary on Saturday evening, 15 December, the \t\tG-77/China, EU, LDCs, SIDS, New Zealand, Switzerland and several others \t\tsupported AWG Vice-Chair Bergh e4ll 92s proposal to approve the second \t\toption.
The stated objective is \t\tto assist all parties, in particular developing countries, including the \t\tLDCs and SIDS, to improve their understanding and assessment of impacts, \t\tvulnerability and adaptation, and to make informed decisions on \t\tpractical adaptation actions and measures.
AUSTRALIA said adjustments are intended as an element of the Protocol 92s compliance system.
  On Thursday, Saint Lucia, supported by Ireland, Norway, the EU, Belgium, the UK, Bolivia, Zambia and others, opposed conflating separate geoengineering concepts, noting that while GHG removal is a policy response included in the Paris Agreement, solar radiation management is not.
TUVALU questioned the usefulness of a long-term target given rapidly evolving science.
On Preliminary Examination of Questions, SAUDI ARABIA suggested that multiple cases on the same type of issues should be referred to the subsidiary bodies.
  South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested a focus on scope, further analysis and possible solutions.
On bunker fuels, VENEZUELA, opposed by NORWAY and CANADA, proposed introducing their language on bunker fuels as an alternative to the clusters in the text.
ARGENTINA, supported by THAILAND and COLOMBIA, and opposed by MALAWI and VENEZUELA, proposed an additional meeting for each drafting group.
 During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, underscored that Annex I parties must urgently raise their level of ambition, and highlighted the need to finalize outstanding issues, including LULUCF accounting rules and the flexibility mechanisms.
SWITZERLAND and the EU said the usefulness of an intersessional meeting would depend on progress in Bonn and that not all topics required the same time allocation.
NORWAY and CANADA suggested accounting approaches and sustainable land management, and TANZANIA identified the need for international sustainable development criteria.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EGYPT, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BRAZIL, BARBADOS, CHINA and other developing countries, opposed this, noting that support for NAMAs through finance and technology transfer should be discussed in this sub-group on 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
The LDCs, supported by the EU, suggested reference to paragraph 11(a) of the draft text (communication of INDCs’ mitigation component).
TUVALU drew attention to differences in the treatment of REDD and conservation and suggested reference to the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and Prior Informed Consent.
The AOSIS draft protocol would ensure technology transfer by including language stronger than Article 4.1.
VENEZUELA, speaking on behalf of Argentina, Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia, China, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Ecuador, El Salvador, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Paraguay, Palestine, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, Thailand, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, called for open-ended, transparent and inclusive consultations.
The EU noted the linking of the EU emissions trading \t\tscheme to the Kyoto mechanisms, and concerns that the CDM process needs \t\tto be improved to deliver projects and CERs on the scale sought by \t\tParties.
The EU and Japan \t\tcalled for further exploration of solutions that would provide \t\tsufficient incentives for mitigation but not for increased production.
The EU said all parties should submit unconditional commitments, with the possibility for the most vulnerable to also submit actions conditional on support.
The EU, supported by other Annex I parties, opposed the development and use of performance indicators for the review, stating that this could pre-empt the outcomes of a workshop to be held this summer, and a technical paper to be prepared by the Secretariat.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, the EU, JAPAN, SAMOA, and US, requested that text referring to information sharing at side events be deleted.
BRAZIL presented on equity and ambition, emphasizing the need to consider linkages between equity, ambition and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities within and outside the UNFCCC.
Delegates then heard views on the LDC Fund and decided to continue negotiations though informal consultations.
Chile, for AILAC, asserted that all parties should take a commitment proportional to their capacity and support should be provided to those lacking capacity.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and the US emphasized that the aggregate ambition assessment should be part of the agreement, while specific modalities could be established in future decisions.
The US said the integrity of the emissions trading system would be founded on monitoring and reporting under Protocol Articles 5 (methodological issues) and 7 (communication of information) and the existence of registries.
The US and Benin said that any such proposal should be reviewed by the full membership of both subsidiary bodies and the COW agreed to recommend this formulation to COP-1.
Chile, for AILAC, announced proposals to streamline the text on, inter alia, long term and global aspects of adaptation, and commitments.
Agreement to remove the brackets was reached in exchange for inclusion of a paragraph that notes the unique circumstances of LDCs, and that the establishment of the LDC Expert Group "does not set a precedent for the establishment of similar groups for other categories of countries."
CANADA stressed the need to streamline the tables and make them consistent.
The EU said efforts by countries that are not parties to the Protocol affect the level of Annex I aggregate emission reductions.
ECUADOR cautioned against using the notion of national circumstances to re-categorize developing countries and described historic responsibility as an “ecological debt” to be paid off.
With CHINA, she stressed that NAMAs should be voluntary and cannot be used for offsetting by developed countries.
The UK reported on efforts to \t\t\treduce emissions in London through measures such as improving the \t\t\tenergy efficiency of buildings, using renewable energy, and setting \t\t\tgoals for zero carbon development.
The EU and the US said a dialogue would inform the next round of INDCs.
NEW ZEALAND supported a 1990 base year for all activities.
CHINA suggested highlighting transfer of technology and proposed adding a paragraph on Annex II Parties\' activities on technology transfer.
The EU said it was aware of the importance of these issues for developing countries, particularly least developed countries and, with the US, supported one decision.
The EU then submitted their proposal under this issue.
SWITZERLAND suggested these modalities would fall under discussions on biennial reports.
AOSIS stressed the need to act urgently in accordance with the polluter pays principle and proposed addressing black carbon and methane emissions.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, suggested SBSTA express support for the World Conference on Climate Change, to be held in Moscow from 29 September to 3 October 2003.
SAUDI ARABIA said the paragraph should be retained.
The US said “stringency” and “comparability” were different issues and supported focusing on national compliance structures.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by TOGO, said that: COP-4\'s second review must respect the FCCC mandate and not be distracted by extraneous consideration of new commitments for non-Annex I Parties; COP-4 should convene the next review at the same time as the review at COP/MOP-2, in accordance with Article 9.2 of the Protocol; and subsequent reviews should take place in the year preceding the termination of successive Protocol commitment periods.
SWITZERLAND stressed the importance of ambitious emissions reduction policies to foster technology transfer.
The US said Protocol-related developmental activities, particularly those related to the cooperative mechanims, should be shifted to the Supplemental Trust Fund or to the proposal for the interim allocation.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS questioned the value of an element on national decision-making processes for adaptation planning.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called on parties to avoid duplication of efforts and focus on a streamlined, targeted agenda.
 INDIA said that new questions had emerged, including the "thermostat effect," which were not adequately covered by the IPCC.
The G-77/CHINA said project eligibility is central to the principle, nature and scope of the CDM.
The US expressed appreciation of the work by the chairs and facilitators.
The US, supported by JAPAN and the EU, called for collaboration with the International Civil Aviation Organiation (ICAO) and International Maritime Organization (IMO) specifically in studies on bunker emissions.
BELARUS highlighted that his country is ready to implement a number of JI projects using the Track 2 procedure, indicating that they are only waiting to achieve Annex B status.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged achievement of milestones in Cancun, through a set of decisions that adequately address all elements of the BAP, which must eventually lead to a legally-binding agreement.
EGYPT and ALGERIA urged greater simplification of \t\tmodalities and procedures.
GERMANY said current resources for the Adaptation Fund are not adequate.
  On Thursday, Germany and Norway supported changing the chapter title to “Climate Finance and Financial Flows,” while the Netherlands, supported by the EU and Norway, suggested including “Investment” in the title and including a bullet point on enabling environments for financial investment and flows.
UGANDA supported monitoring and evaluation of implementing agencies.
Guatemala, for AILAC, underscored the agreement should: be ambitious and universal; prevent backsliding; and lead to gradual scaling up of all commitments.
The EU called for a separate option clearly indicating that loss and damage should not be included in the agreement.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by ALBA, suggested a focus on a possible amendment to Annex B.
Bolivia, on behalf of ALBA, said they are ready to work constructively towards a second commitment period.
AILAC, CHINA and AOSIS noted links between adaptation communications and the global stocktake.
AUSTRALIA said poor IPR protection can hinder deployment and development of technologies.
MALAYSIA expressed concern about text on local stakeholder involvement in project design.
Barbados, for AOSIS, identified 350 ppm as the safe concentration level, which has already been exceeded.
Angola, for the LDCs, emphasized the importance of discussing the review under the COP.
Supported by POLAND, HUNGARY underscored the need to enhance understanding of the three new gases under the Kyoto Protocol.
  On CCS (FCCC/SBSTA/2008/INF.1), NORWAY, KUWAIT, CANADA, the EU, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN and others, opposed by BRAZIL, MICRONESIA and others, supported inclusion of CCS projects under the CDM.
AUSTRALIA supported the proposal for a separate thematic chapter on MRV.
NEPAL stressed regional environmental cooperation and opposed undue limits on energy consumption.
ZIMBABWE stated that individual Parties should decide whether committee members are delegates, national NGOs or others.
France, on behalf of the EU, said "simplified" leaves a broad scope for interpretation, and suggested that developing countries could use IPCC default guidelines.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern about the lack of financial support for the implementation of the decision.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said the new SAR findings demand unity in tackling climate change.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and NICARAGUA, opposed adoption of the agenda without the agenda item on national adaptation plans for LDCs, as provided for in Decision 1/CP.16.
INDONESIA said accounting rules for Annex I countries should be applicable also within the CDM and called for incorporation of social and cultural dimensions.
The US noted “unacceptable” elements in the draft text, such as elements from the Kyoto Protocol, as well as key omissions, noting that the text moves away from the agreement in Copenhagen.
China, Sudan, for the G-77/China, India, Bolivia, Saudi Arabia and Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the African Group’s statement and highlighted that the solution refers not only to time devoted to numbers, but also to the need for progress on concrete, specific and ambitious numbers.
AOSIS said that provision of financial resources must be guided by developing countries’ priorities, which he said should be contained in the overarching principles.
On actions necessary to meet needs and concerns of developing countries, the US and the EU proposed following FCCC Article 4.8 on "consideration" of actions necessary and on "funding, insurance and the transfer of technology."
The PHILIPPINES reiterated that the work should be prioritized and that the G-77 could not participate in drafting groups outside the Plenary.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed a commitment to a strengthened, comprehensive and ambitious international climate change regime.
On rules and modalities, the EU, with New Zealand, suggested that the new agreement contain high-level MRV and accounting principles, with guidelines and modalities elaborated in COP decisions.
On the pace of work, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the need for a e2 80 9cchange in gear e2 80 9d and a more workable text.
URUGUAY called for solidarity and noted that the COP continues to "discuss the sex of angels" while some countries are suffering the effects of inaction.
 FRANCE reported on consultations on the vulnerability of the African continent, noting the COP 21 Presidency considers there is no consensus on recognizing Africa’s vulnerability within the context of the Paris Agreement.
In support \t\tof her delegation 92s proposal, the EU, supported by JAPAN and the US, \t\tsaid, inter alia, that: capacity and infrastructure is enhanced \t\tafter completion of initial national communications, facilitating the \t\tpreparation of subsequent national communications; frequent submissions \t\tof national communications will result in more funds; and a longer \t\ttime-frame will encourage inefficiency.
INDIA said that developed countries must take mitigation commitments based on historical responsibility, while developing countries can take voluntary mitigation actions.
FRANCE noted there is not yet a final decision from the EU and said the group will have to spend a week preparing for a ministerial segment
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized developed countries’ obligation to provide MOI, and that social and economic development and poverty eradication are first and overriding priorities for developing countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested moving away from one-hour sessions.
BOLIVIA called for a TEM on technologies, knowledge systems and practices of indigenous peoples and local communities.
AUSTRALIA preferred the option of “at least X% below 1990 levels.” He said they could consider a 1990 base year as long as parties can inscribe reference years.
He added that AOSIS would not permit mechanisms that allow Annex I Parties to offload domestic responsibilities.
UGANDA said unfair distribution could impact on Africa 92s level of project experience, and thus its ability to participate in the CDM.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called on developed countries to live up to their historical responsibilities in adopting a “clear and meaningful” second commitment period in Doha.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of political clarity from Annex I parties concerning their willingness to commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
IRAN asked if IPCC would address the climatic impact of solar cycles.
Suggesting that Paris will lead to a historical agreement, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, affirmed the group’s confidence in the COP Presidency.
The EU noted that monitoring and evaluation would not be part of the monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) regime.
The US said that all \t\tcountries must be included in combating climate change.
The US questioned how this fund would be managed and its proceeds dispersed.
Co-Facilitator Martin Hession (EU) will report to the SBI Chair, with a view to securing additional time to reach agreement.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, called for addressing capacity building in a stand-alone manner and through recognition of the issue under other building blocks.
The US preferred its inclusion in the Rules of Procedure since no other Party objected.
BANGLADESH, NAURU, the SUDAN and ZAMBIA said the accreditation process should be simplified to facilitate access.
AUSTRALIA, supported by URUGUAY, cautioned against duplicating the work of the IPCC and said that the panels will ensure that SBSTA will continue to get non-politicized science.
MALAYSIA said the AOSIS draft protocol should form a basis to elaborate on quantified targets.
DENMARK stressed increasing the use of renewable energy.
Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing this under the agenda item on intergovernmental arrangements.
The G-77/CHINA proposed inserting preambular language in the text and, with Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, BRAZIL, BANGLADESH and BOLIVIA, explained that the goal was to ensure consistency between sections of the negotiating text.
The EU said standardized baselines would reduce transaction costs, improve distribution and strengthen certainty under the CDM.
Several parties, including VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, UGANDA, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, BELIZE and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to focus on the revised text.
Regarding balancing positive and negative consequences, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed concern.
The US expressed sympathy with those having problems accessing funds, and said he is “extremely worried” about where resources put forward go to if they are not available to countries.
The Western European and Others Group (WEOG) and the Asian Group are to appoint Vice- Chairs.
MOROCCO, noting the risk of scenario \t\tproliferation, proposed a work group to clarify a procedure for \t\tpreparing scenarios that would serve to differentiate between IPCC and \t\tnon-IPCC scenarios.
The EU said the package paves the way forward in the process, noting that Copenhagen provided the initial step for anchoring pledges.
Chile, for AILAC, preferred existing reporting vehicles that would not burden any country and facilitate North-South and South-South cooperation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed progress in Panama, but underscored outstanding work on the road to Durban.
NEW ZEALAND expressed willingness to work with the Chair’s paper, noting that some elements require further elaboration, such as establishment of a new fund and details of ICA.
VENEZUELA proposed adding a reference to assisting the COP/MOP-1 in its consideration of the Protocol articles.
AOSIS, NEW ZEALAND, CG-11, AUSTRALIA and the EU supported continued work based on the proposal.
The EU highlighted progress on technology transfer under the SBI and SBSTA.
Supporting the inclusion of the reference, the EU, with AUSTRALIA, noted that decision 17/CP.8 (guidelines for the preparation on non-Annex I national communications) refers to the "frequency of" submissions.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, PERU, MALAYSIA and CHINA, opposed by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, supported the COP, rather than each Annex I Party, selecting the criteria for applying the definition of "forest" in the first commitment period.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and CANADA stressed that adaptation does not include adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized improving and extending TEMs until the mitigation ambition gap is closed, and indicated their outputs should include: updated technical papers; a dynamic online “menu” of policy options; focus on co-benefits of actions, barriers to implementation and strategies to overcome them; and a synthesis for policy makers.
The EU and US noted linkages with the transparency framework.
The US said it could not support language that restricts participation by NGOs and non-state actors.
SWITZERLAND proposed a common accounting and tracking system to safeguard environmental integrity and avoid double counting of internationally transferable mitigation outcomes from cooperative arrangements.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested that the paper also address the question of capability.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned against the use of electronic means.
Belize, for SICA, emphasized the importance of the CGE work programme and the need for updated training materials on non-Annex I parties e2 80 99 national communications, and called for progress on adaptation with a focus on implementation, noting that adequate and sustainable progress cannot be made without adequate and sustainable funding.
The ARAB GROUP lamented that the text does not sufficiently reflect response measures and adaptation actions or economic diversification plans with mitigation co-benefits.
Uzbekistan requested a COP decision to enable CACAM to receive financial support and its experts to be nominated and participate in expert groups.
On the other side, the EU, as well as developing countries such as Tuvalu, Samoa, China and Jamaica, want sinks to be excluded from the CDM.
Supporting the work led by Fiji in developing modalities for the Talanoa Dialogue, Maldives, for AOSIS, said enhancing mitigation ambition should shape all elements of the process.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to switch to full negotiating mode and to have a workable negotiating text in Bangkok.
France, on behalf of the EU, said that the synthesis report should be more flexible in naming Parties, periodicity could await subsidiary bodies" advice, and annual inventories should be extended to all GHGs.
The EU called for a work programme to ensure proper implementation of Protocol Article 2.1(b) (cooperation on P&amp;Ms).
Many parties called for developed countries to lead in emission reductions, and BRAZIL and CHINA said that existing mitigation actions in developing countries must be recognized.
A representative from the environmental NGOs supported the US position and sought expanded access to the floor during negotiations.
The EU and the US supported Annex I and specifically noted paragraph 6, which requires the adoption of the budget by consensus, and suggested that the scale of contributions mentioned in paragraph 9 be more explicit.
The US, EU and Canada suggested that the paragraph on the adequacy of support could be in decision text or the global stocktake.
SAUDI ARABIA wondered how to link these discussions to those in other AWG-KP groups.
The US queried whether maintenance of the institutional linkage was part of the problem with respect to financing of conference services.
The US called for constructive dialogue on the flexibility mechanisms and noted the similarities between the UK and Canadian papers on emissions trading.
CANADA supported the further development of guidelines to improve transparency, consistency, descriptions of policies and measures, and reporting on technology cooperation.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA, emphasized the differences between facilitation of implementation and promotion of compliance.
TURKEY noted that his country is in the process of acceding to the Kyoto Protocol.
On the impact of response measures on the economies of oil producing and other countries, SAUDI ARABIA referred to recent studies suggesting oil producing countries will suffer economically from response measures and, with KUWAIT and LIBYA, said developed countries should remove market distortions in the energy sector.
On the implementation of enabling environments, the G-77/ CHINA said that the actions of developing countries depend on the implementation of Annex I commitments.
He said it is unlikely that the EU will increase its target to a 30% reduction before Durban, as the relevant issues are still under negotiation.
URUGUAY expressed concern about the lack of comparability between Annex I national communications.
The US agreed with the Netherlands that markets can benefit from coordination of standards, but harmonization can be over-emphasized.
MAURITIUS stressed increasing adaptive capacity of \t\tvulnerable Parties.
The UK suggested adding language noting that the scale and magnitude of the rate of change depends on emission scenarios, but after comments from WGI Co-Chair Stocker and Saudi Arabia on the need for short and concise headline statements, the Panel agreed to the text as earlier amended without the addition proposed by the UK.
The EU offered substitute language that clarified the mechanism\'s role, which was amended and accepted.
The PHILIPPINES stressed effective implementation of Convention Article 4.1(c) (promotion and cooperation in the development and transfer of technologies, practices and processes), supported by enabling means under Convention Article 4.3 (provision of new and additional financial resources).
 \t\t \t\tTuvalu, for AOSIS, called for a special \t\ttrack for SIDS to address urgent needs, and said the programme should \t\tnot include matters relating to mitigation.
SAMOA highlighted two reports indicating that nearly all losses in developing countries due to extreme events are not covered by insurance.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said only the G-77/China’s proposal came close to providing the required level of resources.
The EIG called for a solid work plan, agreed in Bonn, that includes milestones and a timetable, leading to a smooth adoption of the future regime in 2015.
SAMOA and the US highlighted the need for an integrated approach to adaptation.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, announced a submission on non-carbon benefits.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said he supported adoption of a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and a legally-binding framework.
Noting the large share of global emissions resulting from deforestation, BOLIVIA supported conservation of existing forests under the CDM.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA suggested consideration of such language that does not require an amendment of Annex A. JAPAN highlighted environmental integrity, but said technical details require further clarification.
Tuvalu, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), \t\thighlighted the need for strong linkages with the 10-year review of the \t\timplementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable \t\tDevelopment of Small Island Developing States (BPOA+10) and the World \t\tConference on Disaster Reduction (WCDR), both to be held in January \t\t2005, and emphasized the importance of dialogue on adaptation.
She noted the need for US$2.8 million for operational costs.
The EU highlighted market-based mechanisms.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G- 77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and frameworks for implementation.
 SAMOA, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said the Secretariat\'s provisional agenda relates to and is controlled by the BM and the work of AGBM 1 and is therefore acceptable.
In the afternoon, the APA contact group met to facilitate interaction between parties and representatives of the Adaptation Committee, the LDC Expert Group (LEG), the Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) and the Green Climate Fund (GCF).
BOLIVIA said a level of ambition that would lead to a 4ºC world is unacceptable.
PARAGUAY noted duplication of work on biodiversity and indigenous peoples with other UN fora.
SWITZERLAND proposed a global carbon tax, with INDIA highlighting difficulties in harmonizing a tax globally.
 UZBEKISTAN proposed differentiation for Annex I Parties, according to the level of economic development and GDP per capita.
JAPAN proposed a roundtable with industry on sectoral approaches in Poznan.
  This item was first taken up in plenary to consider the report on the experience, lessons learned and best practices in conducting reviews of various arrangements under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol relevant to the periodic assessment of the Technology Mechanism and was subsequently discussed in joint informal consultations, co-facilitated by Ian Lloyd (US) and Claudia Octaviano (Mexico).
With JAPAN, he opposed wider distribution of the tables.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted, inter alia, the critical work ahead to ensure that guidance on features, information and accounting for NDCs can accelerate efforts to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 c2 b0C.
TIMOR-LESTE, supported by MAURITANIA, underscored the lack of financial resources in the LDCF that he said can leave proposals for NAPA implementation unfunded.
At the \t\tcontact group meeting on Thursday, 26 May, Chair Ashe presented a \t\trevised budget proposal consisting of total income of US$55,251,583, \t\twhich was supported by the EU and G-77/China.
INDIA highlighted that discussions should also be based on the Bali Action Plan, which mandates ensuring comparable efforts among developed countries.
 On “guiding objectives,” the EU stated that eventual reduction of CO2 emissions to 50% of their current levels is required to keep global average temperature from increasing more than two degrees above its pre-industrial level.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that agreement on the work by the AWG-KP should be part of a comprehensive outcome considering the AWG-LCA.
The G-77/CHINA, KUWAIT and VENEZUELA stressed the importance of technological development relating to fossil fuels for diversification of economies in oil exporting developing countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed guarded optimism on progress, noting the need to maintain pace under both AWGs.
ef bf bd CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EU and JAPAN, \t\tproposed new paragraphs noting that SBSTA had not concluded the question \t\trelating to Protocol Article 6 and would further consider the issue at \t\tSBSTA-21.
UKRAINE opposed considering a global carbon budget, preferring a bottom-up approach to long-term emission reductions.
TURKEY underlined the importance of COP decisions on capacity building.
UGANDA said all the references to FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 should be deleted, since they were under deliberation elsewhere.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and INDONESIA supported holding an in-session workshop on the shared vision.
On consideration of Article 7.2 (inclusion of supplementary information in national communications), the US, NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA and GERMANY questioned the timing for the submission of national communications and where this should be treated.
SWITZERLAND, the EU and AUSTRALIA said a sufficient methodological basis now exists for REDD activities, and the EU and PAPUA NEW GUINEA supported a COP decision on methodological issues in Poznań.
NORWAY identified the need to discuss the objectives and principles of a technology transfer framework.
AUSTRALIA said parties had agreed to an iterative approach, rather than top-down or bottom-up.
The G-77/China, the Africa Group and Samoa, opposed by the US, Canada, Japan, Russian Federation, Hungary and Australia, urged the establishment of an adaptation fund based on a levy applied to all three mechanisms.
Fiji, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), highlighted that work under the ADP must not lead to the re-interpretation or rewriting of the Convention.
GRENADA also objected to adopting terms of reference for CDM EB members, highlighting that it may bias countries with limited CDM knowledge and expertise.
Recalling discussions at IPCC-19, the US asked whether the SYR would address topics or questions.
CANADA noted the importance \t\tof understanding commitments that can be made in the near future, as \t\tmilestones on the way to global emission reductions goals.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and others supported considering proposed new mechanisms, but also underscored the importance of discussions on the existing mechanisms.
The US called for an option in the text to update the Convention’s annexes to reflect parties’ changing economic and emissions trends.
With the US and the UK, but opposed by CHILE and SAUDI ARABIA, she said the former task could be performed by the Secretariat.
Canada, followed by the US and Australia, \t\tsuggested a strategic approach to developing the programme of work.
 \t\t \t\tThe US highlighted \t\tthree key requirements: policy, research and development, and \t\tcommercialization and deployment.
FINLAND noted his country has Europe e2 80 99s highest percentage forest cover, at over 70% of the land area, and that LULUCF remains an emissions sink despite growth in bioenergy production.
In the ensuing discussion, Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported increasing the inclusion of civil society in the negotiations and suggested exploring ways to enhance the involvement of civil society members from developing countries.
The EU said a possible way of making all countries limit their GHG emissions is to agree on increasing global participation after the first commitment period.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized that climate change financing should not be merely a reshaping of ODA, and PAKISTAN stressed that market mechanisms alone cannot fill the financing gap.
She indicated that some small island developing States (SIDS) have adopted goals including carbon neutrality and reducing emissions below a base year or BAU.
The EU opposed the concept of borrowing and the consideration of emissions budgets without QELROs and timetables.
The US suggested that this approach recognize the unique characteristics of different elements.
Panama, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS (CfRN), highlighted the critical role of REDD+.
SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA both raised concerns about the text.
The NETHERLANDS added market-based differentiation mechanisms.
Noting the objection of the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, parties agreed to hold informal consultations, open to observers, to address: paragraph 14 on party cooperation; paragraphs 1 and 2 on the objective of the agreement; and paragraph 5 on the obligation of all parties to take action and cooperate.
The US said the document on steps taken by non-Annex I Parties to reduce emissions does not respond appropriately to the relevant requests made by COP-8 and SBI-18.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA and others, urged SBSTA to invite Parties to submit views on these issues.
TUVALU proposed three dimensions: a quantitative goal of stabilization; a qualitative goal including the right to survive and transition to a low-emission society; and a functional dimension describing urgency, cooperative action, financial support and compensation for impacts to LDCs and SIDS.
The US preferred to continue with a more general reading of the text to identify e2 80 9cthe major issues in the negotiations.
AUSTRALIA suggested additions to the Secretariat’s budget.
The US said capacity building for the identification of CDM projects could maximize their use for technology transfer.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NICARAGUA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed their regret that not all conclusions had been translated into all UN languages, but agreed to consider the items upon assurance it would not set a precedent.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA called for strengthening the role of the SCF.
On   (Article 4), Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, submitted several insertions on institutional arrangements and the global goal/long-term vision.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that the matrices should only be used to help negotiations rather than eliminate proposals.
The EU said institutions should, inter alia, deliver advice, enable planning and serve as an information platform.
Thailand, with the UK, supported including a gender dimension, and the Democratic Republic of Congo referred to the elderly.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that agreement on a second commitment period is “absolutely essential,” observing that Durban should result in a legally-binding outcome under the AWG-KP.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for more information on bunker fuel emissions growth, while the EU highlighted that sufficient information exists to justify the consideration of bunker fuels.
As proposed by the US, the language was included as a sub-item under the chapeau on “organization of work of COP-3,” rather than as a separate paragraph.
On  , parties discussed the proposals to limit the carry-over surplus by AOSIS, the African Group and Brazil, which were consolidated into a new proposal by the G-77/China, in which 2.5% of the second commitment period forms the ceiling of carry-over.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the SBSTA cannot approve any material not yet approved by the IPCC\'s Plenary.
On the section on Pathways for mitigating climate change (Chapters 6-13), the UK proposed a new chapter on global perspectives (such as on emissions, projections, mitigation options and international efforts for stabilization of greenhouse gases) to help policymakers.
The EIG, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs, the EU and NORWAY, proposed one day for mitigation, two days for transparency, and, with ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, one day for adaptation communications.
INDIA and several others opposed, stressing that such proposals are inconsistent with the Convention as they would impose new requirements on developing countries.
Countries were to be permitted, he said, “to find a new way under the Convention.” KAZAKSTAN expressed willingness to undertake obligations and enter into Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol through Annex I of the FCCC.
\t\tOn terms of appointment, FRANCE, with AUSTRIA, proposed that the IPCC \t\tBureau nominate a suitable replacement in cases where an IPCC member \t\tfails to nominate a replacement candidate or is not confirmed by the \t\tPanel.
TUVALU suggested a new annex allowing voluntary commitments by non-Annex I countries.
The CLIMATE GROUP emphasized best practices and leadership examples emanating from subnational governments.
BASIC noted that increased pre-2020 ambition by developed countries, including full capitalization of the Green Climate Fund, will build trust in the post-2020 process.
On a paragraph on communication of the mitigation component of INDCs, NORWAY suggested: adding reference to unconditionality of efforts by all, while maintaining a reference to enhanced efforts by developing countries made possible with provision of support; and recognizing the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, with the latter proposal supported by the LDCs, with some amendments.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted linkages with other issues, including transparency and the global stocktake, and called for examining definitions.
She supported the consideration of the AOSIS protocol and the German elements as inputs to analysis and assessment activities.
The US suggested citing emissions by GHGs rather than by sector.
Noting the importance of environmental integrity, JAPAN highlighted the need for rules to operationalize the Protocol and mobilize the private sector.
China, for BASIC, emphasized that a successful completion of the AWG-LCA must address all elements of the Bali Action Plan and must not leave key issues off the table, such as equitable access to sustainable development and intellectual property rights (IPRs).
AUSTRALIA highlighted the importance of objectives and principles, noting sharp differences regarding IPRs.
AOSIS stressed that technology development and transfer must address both adaptation and mitigation, and take into account the special concerns of SIDS, particularly those dealing with economies of scale and geographical remoteness.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, CHINA and NEW ZEALAND supported noting the report.
ICELAND highlighted: a nearly 100% renewables share in the power and heating mix; the high share of industrial processes in the country’s emissions; and mitigation opportunities in fisheries, transport, and afforestation and revegetation.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, supported the EU 92s principles on additionality and said additionality should be considered on a project-by-project basis.
The US, Canada and Australia expressed concern regarding the lack of rigorous research on contributions to climate change.
CANADA and NEW ZEALAND supported cumulative or aggregate targets.
To maintain political momentum, JAPAN noted its preference for COP-6 in November 2000.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported the current process initiated by the minister-led informal consultations and stressed the need to find common landing ground with specific text proposals.
VENEZUELA warned against using a lack of developing country targets as an excuse by developed countries for not committing to ambitious targets.
INDONESIA stressed the importance of trust and good-faith negotiations, calling for the adoption of the agenda.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested considering the level of mitigation ambition by developed countries.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, called for a work plan that includes a third workshop to be held in October 2002.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA explained their proposals for an arrangement to reduce emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and for a rapid, near-term mitigation work programme to reduce emissions of short-lived substances, such as black carbon.
The Chair proposed consultations between the US and Venezuela.
JAPAN said his basic approach continues to be the gross approach.
On registries, SOUTH AFRICA proposed a registry of nationally appropriate mitigation actions in developing countries and setting targets for financial flows to support such actions.
Several supported a permanent technical expert group, opposed by the US and AUSTRALIA.
TUVALU and COSTA RICA stressed that their countries’ proposals are not intended to replace the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, opposed by the EU, called for including labor, agriculture, and quasi-governmental entities.
VENEZUELA, supported by KUWAIT, proposed producing a written report along with their decisions, because an oral report could leave some things unclear.
On capacity building in EITs, Co-Chair Uosukainen said the group had agreed on a framework that sets out the scope and basis for action in EITs, identifies EIT priorities, and outlines responsibilities of EITs in implementing the framework and those of Annex II Parties in assisting EITs.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with JAPAN, ZAMBIA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and ETHIOPIA, highlighted the need to improve the geographical distribution of the CDM and emphasized that LULUCF provides this opportunity.
The US said that the SBSTA should not duplicate the IPCC, but should convert IPCC findings into a form appropriate for the COP.
CANADA recommended an insurance approach.
BURKINA FASO emphasized obligations related to developing countries, specifically technology transfer.
INDIA underscored that unilateral trade measures should not be taken by developed countries in the guise of climate change mitigation actions.
ARGENTINA cautioned against moving text from one e2 80 9ccontext e2 80 9d to another.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS supported the AWG-LCA considering the overarching policy issues relating to frequency and guidelines for reporting.
With AUSTRALIA, they said the issue should be considered in a non-political manner.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported a mandate to the subsidiary body Presiding Officers to develop a draft text.
URUGUAY said the Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research is ready to cooperate with the UNFCCC.
The US noted that his country 92s proposal was now entitled "effective participation in the UNFCCC process."
He opposed “unilateral measures” on international aviation under the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme.
The US, supported by the EU, JAPAN, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, supported the distribution of the Chairs’ draft for perusal and consideration.
He then asked parties to consider G-77/CHINA’s proposal to start work based on the supplementary provisional agenda without adopting it formally, pending inclusive consultations on the issue.
INDIA underlined that the agreement could be the “final reinforcement” of the framework and reflect its durability.
Meles Zenawi, Prime Minister of Ethiopia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted the importance of Africa speaking with one voice, and outlined a short-term finance proposal that includes: US$10 billion per year for 2010-2012; a board of trustees with representatives from an equal number of donor and recipient countries; 40% of funds earmarked for Africa; and a committee of experts to facilitate the launch of the fund.
On \t\treferencing emission sources, SWITZERLAND, supported by PAKISTAN, CHILE, \t\tNORWAY and others, noted that 93anthropogenic sources 94 was too vague as \t\tit could include land use, land use change, and forestry.
 KUWAIT said several delegations had referred to the SAR and selective portions and attempted to related them to QELROs.
The EU stressed that the proposed agenda did not recognize issues that the AWG-LCA was tasked by COP 17 to take forward in 2012.
INDIA, ECUADOR and others expressed concern that the draft decision contained e2 80 9cclean text.
On institutional arrangements, CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, said that the discussion on functions should first focus on the results that parties wish to see in the longer term and then consider how to construct the best possible mechanism for realizing them.
 MALAYSIA said the AGBM cannot lose sight of the fact that the majority of emissions is produced by developed countries and developing countries have relatively low per capita emissions.
NICARAGUA lamented the current “lost decade” concerning mitigation, finance and vision.
\t\tMAURITIUS hoped sufficient funds would be available to provide for \t\tparticipation of LDC and SIDS delegates.
The EU suggested that all three Articles be discussed together so as to reach a single decision.
Nauru, for AOSIS, questioned whether adaptation can provide a sufficient solution to climate change impacts in SIDS, and whether the GCF can afford to pay for such measures, and called for prioritizing mitigation under the ADP.
Cyprus, for the EU, highlighted: the EU’s immediate implementation of their second commitment period commitments regardless of other parties’ ratification timing; the need for broad participation and flexibility based on environmental integrity; and the need to resolve the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs.
AOSIS emphasized the need to avoid locking in the first commitment period surplus and rewarding parties for not achieving their commitments.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern regarding the challenges impeding expedited implementation of projects identified in national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs), particularly the requirement for co-financing, saying this is inappropriate for the implementation of the urgent activities identified in NAPAs.
JAPAN expressed concern about language requirements for lead reviewers.
Highlighting the need for a financial and institutional framework, NORWAY, with many parties, underscored a results-based, multi-phase approach, with an initial readiness phase supported by funds, followed by a performance-verified phase with market involvement.
The US said work is only at the information stage and voiced concerns about duplicating work.
On Classification of Inventory Problems, the EU presented a non-paper that provides for, inter alia, categories of problems triggering an expedited procedure.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AILAC and the LDCs, called for restructuring the section before deciding what to transfer to decision text.
The US queried the utility of taking a carbon budget approach versus identifying different pathways.
The UK, with Slovenia, proposed adding an introductory \t\tparagraph to the SYR SPM stressing overall progress in scientific \t\tunderstanding of climate change since the Third Assessment Report (TAR).
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized that voting is not the way to adopt an important international instrument.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and opposed by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, requested that SBSTA conclusions take note of Canada 92s proposal for a study on the role of trade in cleaner energy in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC and the Protocol.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged closure of the pre-2020 mitigation gap in order to determine whether adaptation measures should address a temperature increase of less than 1.5˚C from pre-industrial levels, or increases of 3˚C or more.
Regarding the draft conclusions on the work programme on methodological issues related to Protocol Articles 5 (methodologies), 7 (communication), and 8 (review of information) (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/L.3), the EU requested changing the date of submission from 15 August to 15 September to allow time for preparation.
SOUTH AFRICA said the registry could help raise developing countries’ ambition.
Many countries, including Malawi, for the LDCs, NEW ZEALAND and the US, supported recognizing the specific circumstances of SIDS and LDCs, including through direct access and readiness support.
The EU, with South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed working on the basis of the draft decisions contained in the SCF report.
SWITZERLAND cautioned against creating artificial linkages, and highlighted the value of joint meetings.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the US, said that GEF should be established as the permanent FCCC financial mechanism.
 , the US, supported by Saudi Arabia, called for the text to reflect both the benefits and risks of mitigation and adaptation in a balanced manner.
SWITZERLAND proposed that the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Council continue initiatives on guidelines on emissions reductions.
Jim Penman, EU, said the science has progressed in recent years and called for a common approach for developed countries.
With the EU and Norway, Switzerland emphasized that the Cancun Agreements provide a common understanding on the establishment of a second commitment period.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA and others, and opposed by SWITZERLAND, expressed preference for separate draft decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and another on Protocol Article 3.14.
The EU urged that budgetary matters be addressed by the SBI.
JAPAN preferred addressing initiation of JI projects along with project eligibility and said many countries did not concur with the two-step approach.
NORWAY, with SWITZERLAND, suggested examining whether exemption from the share of proceeds could be further enhanced.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged progress on items such as land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) and the flexibility mechanisms, and expressed commitment to continuous, effective action on climate change now, up to and beyond 2012.
With BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, PAKISTAN and AOSIS, he called for the timely disbursement of financial resources, and for holding regional and subregional workshops on the guidelines for the second national communications.
SAMOA suggested incorporating a reference to environmental integrity in the general provisions and, with regard to the NEW ZEALAND proposal, said the post-verification approach, listed as a potential consequence of non-compliance, needed to remain intact and not be mixed with borrowing.
He advocated the targets and timetables set out in an AOSIS protocol and endorsement of the SAR.
On the preamble, the US said that language on financial resources required for adaptation and mitigation by developing countries did not meet the test for simplicity and called for language that is forward-looking and inspiring.
ARGENTINA, with AOSIS, stressed the need to consider adaptation as well as mitigation.
The UK underscored continuity with past \t\temission scenarios, in order not to undermine the work upon which the \t\tAR4 is based.
GRENADA called for a technical paper on the challenges encountered in INDC preparation.
In the SBI plenary on Tuesday, 17 May, Thailand, for the G-77/China, called for recording adaptation communications in the public NDC registry maintained by the Secretariat.
The US suggested discussing if NAPs, or a distillation of information they contain, can be the adaptation communications.
BOLIVIA called for including non-market based approaches.
On the \t\tstructure of the work programme, the US highlighted the need to focus on \t\tpriority sectors.
NEW ZEALAND suggested a three-tier approach: a technical review team, a single compliance body and a further review body.
The US stated that, if included, the paragraph should reflect the whole decision and not just a part of it.
SENEGAL, with ARGENTINA, noted constraints on translation and dissemination of communications.
PERU proposed insurance schemes for agricultural protection to cover crops and cattle loss.
In the contact group, reacting to the report of the Adaptation Fund Board (AFB) (FCCC/KP/ CMP/2018/4), South Africa for the G-77/China, the EU, Solomon Islands for AOSIS, Switzerland for the EIG, and Malawi for the LDCs commended the work and role of the Adaptation Fund in supporting adaptation efforts in developing countries, with the G-77/China also appreciating the Fund’s “innovativeness” in the area of access modalities.
The US emphasized that costs should include not just the costs of damages but also the costs of response in order to emphasize the value gained by preparedness and, supported by Canada, called for going beyond the climate extremes and impact information contained in the AR4.
UKRAINE and NORWAY proposed that COP 13 should create a \t\tnegotiation process to be finalized at COP 15.
TUVALU opposed the EU’s proposal to hold parallel sessions on the building blocks.
With TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, he opposed a “facilitative and non-punitive framework,” saying this would hamper implementation.
SAUDI ARABIA called for addressing the impacts of \t\tresponse measures.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over the lack of voluntary contributions to the Adaptation Fund, and stressed that national adaptation plans must be a viable and implementation-driven process.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that the review process should contain an analysis of current project and programme implementation in response to decision 2/CP.7 (capacity building in developing countries), identify gaps and possible areas for further improvement in implementation, and outline steps to be undertaken by SBI in monitoring capacity-building activities.
  In the morning’s contact group, Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that the non-paper would be the basis for further discussion on positions and structure rather than for negotiation.
BANGLADESH stressed the need to conduct mitigation and adaptation simultaneously, and suggested measures such as developing new varieties of drought-resistant crops and agricultural practices with economized water use, as well as South-South cooperation on R&amp;D.
SAUDI ARABIA requested that a paragraph referring to the elements of future methodological work in an annex to the conclusions should be bracketed, until those elements are agreed.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA said COP- 4 should agree on as many principles as possible and adopt detailed schedules to implement the Kyoto Protocol.
Various developed countries, including Australia, the EU, the US and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, suggested this question warrants further discussion and requires consideration of, inter alia, lessons learned.
INDONESIA welcomed AIJ on a voluntary basis.
INDIA also advocated use of existing technology information centers.
The US proposed an additional agenda item entitled "transparency in the UNFCCC process."
SAUDI ARABIA said public financing should be the main source of financing, possibly supplemented and complemented by private financing.
The US said the issue should be considered as part of a broader strategy on mitigation and adaptation.
INDIA emphasized that cutting and pasting the Protocol mechanisms into a new agreement could lead to “picking and choosing” and renegotiation.
The EU and JAPAN welcomed the GEF’s report, while the G-77/CHINA said the report deviates from the Bali mandate.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the importance of MRV.
 CHINA, supported by INDIA, SRI LANKA, VENEZUELA, MOROCCO, CHILE, SAMOA, GAMBIA, GHANA and JAPAN, requested a compilation synthesis of all proposals to be distributed in January.
MEXICO emphasized North-South and South-South cooperation.
The EU said it should, together with the national communications, provide the basis for a framework on capacity building.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS and others, proposed assessed contributions.
In addition, Parties highlighted the need for: a financial mechanism to assist SIDS in achieving adaptive capacity; strong leadership from Annex I countries in taking responsibility for action on climate change; and a meeting to explore the needs of EITs.
The COOK ISLANDS, MARSHALL ISLANDS, NAURU, NIUE, TUVALU, ALGERIA and the CARICOM States expressed concern that the flexibility mechanisms are a way of avoiding domestic responsibility.
ARGENTINA called for allowing countries to decide themselves what support they need and, with UGANDA, suggested a simple institutional framework.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, called for an open, party-driven, transparent, and inclusive process that focuses on implementing the Bali Action Plan.
He announced that Rachel Warren (UK) had already been elected and the process was underway to select a developing country Co-Chair-elect.
SAUDI ARABIA \t\thighlighted UNFCCC and Kyoto Protocol commitments, and urged support for \t\tParties vulnerable to the impacts of response measures, especially \t\toil-exporting developing countries.
EGYPT, with ALGERIA, called for including a separate paragraph on co-benefits.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, supported a role for the COP/MOP.
JAPAN suggested that consideration of capacity building, technology transfer and finance in the 2015 agreement build on existing arrangements and discussions, which should be part of the package in the 2015 process.
COOK ISLANDS said \t\t\tvulnerability must be measured in terms of countries’ adaptive \t\t\tcapacity.
In 1(a), the EU said flexibility was possible on the date of the second national communication but preferred not to set a precedent.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, underlined that transparency should apply to all aspects, especially MOI; and the need for differentiation in addressing mitigation, stressing the necessity to link actions and support.
  Submission of second, and where appropriate, third national communications: The EU emphasized the importance of an efficient process for the preparation of non-Annex I national communications.
BELGIUM expressed \t\tconcern about the rate of climate change and drew attention to the \t\tsocial and economic consequences that will result if urgent collective \t\taction is not taken.
KENYA stressed the need to create linkages with the GCF.
VENEZUELA said the text is unbalanced, as it makes no reference to non-market approaches.
The EU, the US and CANADA stressed the need to ensure consistency with the capacity building aspects of other discussions on technology transfer and adaptation.
In a joint statement issued at the Summit of the Americas in Santiago, the presidents of the US and Chile, inter alia: stressed that the Protocol\'s market mechanisms would mobilize private sector resources; recognized the potential of the Clean Development Mechanism; and noted that developing countries should participate meaningfully in efforts to address climate change by, for example, taking on emissions targets.
Saying that consideration of this issue is premature, INDIA reminded delegates that during negotiations for the Kyoto Protocol, “the form came last after the substance had been clarified.”
UGANDA called for an advisory technical panel.
Arno Kaschl, European Commission, described the EU e2 80 99s fluorinated gas policy, stressing that efficient, low-cost alternatives to HFCs are available in many subsectors.
Noting the existence of various cultural contexts and individual lifestyles, Chair Pachauri and others expressed concern with the mention of “family” and supported a proposal by the UK that referred instead to “shared financial relationship.” The Panel finally agreed that individuals should disclose significant and relevant financial interests of any person with whom the individual has a substantial business or “relevant shared interest.”
SAUDI ARABIA said financial and technical support should be provided by developed countries only.
The US, supported by AOSIS, responded that the SBSTA had instructed the IPCC to provide a technical paper.
The EU agreed with G77/CHINA that flexible \t\tmechanisms should be available in the future, but raised the possibility \t\tof expanding them.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP stressed governance and recognition of indigenous peoples’ rights.
Other text that was bracketed included: SAUDIA ARABIA 92s proposed reference to methodological issues related to assessing the effectiveness "and impact" of P&amp;Ms; a reference proposed by the US to "assessing/ characterizing" the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms; and the EU 92s reference to the future "structured" work on P&amp;Ms.
CUBA, for Argentina, Brazil, China, India and Saudi Arabia, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and others, stressed the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
The Marshall Islands, speaking for AOSIS, stressed the need for Annex I Parties to take domestic action through P&amp;Ms, while Zimbabwe highlighted their impact on developing countries.
AUSTRALIA warned that providing for alternative avenues to access financial support through non-compliance could create adverse incentives.
GUYANA and others urged incentives for conservation and sustainable forest management.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, urged including the costs of inaction as well as action, and said Annex I parties should focus on domestic emission reductions.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the SBSTA should analyze the SAR and elaborate a proposal for implementation of priority measures.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, stated that reference data based on historical trends would penalize past good behavior.
ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED JOINTLY: On the experience with AIJ, the G-77/CHINA underlined the imbalance of the geographical distribution of pilot projects and urged extension of the pilot phase.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP also suggested starting a process with participation by ministers.
Mexico, for the EIG, recalled the need to finish work under the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP in order to move towards a “technical or implementation phase,” and underscored the relevance of the SBI towards operationalizing the Bali Action Plan.
NORWAY noted the need to try and distinguish between different stocks.
He called on the US to join other industrialized nations in making a successful transition to an energy-efficient economy.
 The EU, supported by many parties, introduced a draft decision to strengthen the implementation of decision 36/CP.7 (enhancing participation of women in UNFCCC bodies).
A number of Parties, including NORWAY, RUSSIA, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, CHILE, FRANCE, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, IRAN and EGYPT, called for differentiation among Annex I countries in order to take account of differences in national circumstances and economic burdens.
 URUGUAY stated that any agreement reached should be as binding as possible, but noted that some delegates become fearful when the word protocol is mentioned.
Responding to a question by AUSTRALIA on mitigation actions planned to enable Belarus to meet its 2020 emissions reduction target, he outlined, inter alia, renewable energy and energy conservation laws.
The EU called for the continuation of the NWP, constructive work on REDD and consideration of technology transfer issues with the SBI.
CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA, introduced text stating, inter alia, that “Annex I parties shall not resort to unilateral measures against imports from developing countries.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed that this issue lies at the core of the discussions on potential consequences and that Annex I parties must not be allowed to use environmental protection as pretext to impose tariffs or trade barriers.
JAPAN supported the proposal to convene the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP contact groups directly.
On guidelines for non-Annex I communications, the G-77/CHINA opposed changing the guidelines, as many non-Annex I countries have not finalized their first communications.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), and New Zealand emphasized that agreement on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol requires resolution of technical issues on LULUCF accounting and market mechanisms.
Kirsten S. Weibe, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, simulated the effects of an uptake of renewable energy technologies in the EU, and found positive employment impacts, apart from in countries exporting fossil fuel to the EU.
ECUADOR called for deleting qualifiers when referring to parity between mitigation and adaptation.
Past agreements in Kyoto, Cancun, Durban, and Paris benefited from clear leadership from key countries, such as the US, the EU, China, and coalitions like AOSIS and the LDCs, combined with a willingness to build alliances across traditional divides.
The US described the proposed conflict of interest policy as a “conceptual misapplication.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to include social and economic interests in the process.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed relevant work under the AWG-LCA, the Article 9 review and REDD, and proposed joint sessions for the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
On paragraph 152, on arrangements for elaborating rules and modalities, SWITZERLAND suggested merging options a and b under option 1 sub-paragraph g on recognizing the use of market mechanisms.
CANADA withdrew its proposal on cleaner energy exports, in the \t\tspirit of moving discussions forward.
A request from countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova (CACAM) and a proposal by Croatia on LULUCF were forwarded to SB-17.
ECUADOR suggested a focus on governance issues, saying that some developing countries are concerned that the GEF favors mitigation over adaptation and is driven by donor interests.
The EU suggested that the consolidated text simply be a reflection of discussions that may form the basis for later negotiation.
NORWAY emphasized using the best available science and knowledge, including traditional and indigenous knowledge, as a basis for parties’ adaptation efforts.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, suggested a register, based on Annex I submissions, of available technologies and how developing countries can utilize them.
The EU said this proposal would reduce long-term incentives for actions.
SWITZERLAND said a separate methodological process would threaten credibility.
BRAZIL, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, explained that developed countries must reduce emissions, while developing countries take action to reduce emission growth, and clarified that the distinction also applied to MRV.
Emphasizing its commitment to make COP-6 a genuine success, the G-77/CHINA expressed its concerns on funding, capacity building, technology transfer, UNFCCC Article 4.8, 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14 (adverse effects), and the CDM.
The EU, Norway, the US, Japan and other developed countries identified the ADP as the appropriate place for discussing mitigation ambition.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted the urgency of textual negotiations.
SAUDI ARABIA recalled long-standing \t\t\topposition within the G-77/China to voluntary commitments and, \t\t\tsupported by EGYPT, said it was not acceptable to try to shift the \t\t\tfocus of ongoing post-2012 discussions.
The EU said the proposed finance board was “very problematic” and identified the need to discuss functions first, and then decide which institutions should undertake them.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with many others, underscored the critical work of the SBI to achieve the objectives agreed in Paris.
While the EU objected, CANADA supported additional rosters for inventory reviews.
Bolivia, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), called for developed countries to meet their historical responsibilities.
The EU welcomed the Secretariat\'s document (FCCC/SBI/1998/CRP.1) and noted the need for further analysis.
The EU explained that its compliance committee would have a facilitative branch and an enforcement branch, with a possible referral from the former to the latter.
The G-77/CHINA underscored that deepening understanding is a complicated issue, including challenges related to attribution, capacities and regulatory frameworks, but that the main message in the text needs to be simplified.
 This group met to continue considering the Co-Chair 92s proposed draft conclusions, which had been revised to include proposals by the G-77/CHINA and EU.
COLOMBIA proposed that a multi-window financial mechanism should include a funding window for REDD activities.
The AOSIS amendment proposed replacing paragraph (4) in the Chair\'s text with "While the initial focus will be on analysis and assessment, it should be carried out in a manner complementary and integrated with the actual negotiations, and the relative consideration of the elements set out in paragraphs (2)(a) to (f) of the Berlin Mandate, in particular the setting of quantified limitation and reduction objectives within specified time frames, will increase as the process advances."
The G-77/China reiterated their preference for two draft decisions, with the EU, Australia, Japan, the US and Switzerland expressing preference for a single decision.
ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: On GHG inventory data for Annex I communications, the US, with POLAND, stressed that timeliness and completeness of submissions were critical in providing a basis for COP action.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and ARGENTINA emphasized the interaction of climate policies and trade.
On the role of the Consultative Group of Experts (CGE), KENYA and VANUATU drew attention to the financial shortfall facing the CGE.
Japan, Canada and Norway called for joint informal discussions, highlighting the need to engage with the US, while Brazil and India said that delegations have members in both AWGs and can coordinate positions without having joint sessions.
AUSTRALIA expressed support for efforts to facilitate the involvement of ministers to the fullest extent possible.
AOSIS welcomed work on a technical paper on insurance.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, opposed the proposals on frameworks for mitigation action by all parties, stressing the distinction between mitigation by developed and developing countries both in magnitude and legal nature.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for discussions in Panama to lay the basis for a balanced and legally-binding outcome in Durban that delivers on the mandates in the Cancun Agreements.
The Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, stressed the need to avoid duplication of efforts under the SBI and AWG-LCA.
The EU called for additional workshops and web-based tools.
  Co-Facilitator Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) asked for views on the placement of text in the Co-Chairs’ Tool and if any element was missing.
On the global goal, the EU, Brazil, Japan, Cuba and others identified the need for a long-term global goal.
The EU, SAUDI ARABIA, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN expressed regret that agreement had not been reached.
SOUTH AFRICA asked what kind of mechanisms are anticipated and how reviews would be carried out.
The EU expressed willingness to commit to a second commitment period as a part of a wider outcome that engages all major economies.
NORWAY, CANADA, the US, the EU and FRANCE supported the idea of allowing Annex I countries to meet their commitments through joint implementation (JI).
INDIA, NEPAL and THAILAND highlighted the need to keep REDD-plus separate from NAMAs.
The US said that work on the Synthesis Report should not be initiated until completion of expert reviews of the Working Group reports, including the incorporation of comments into the reports.
Delegates addressed: the establishment of an LDC Expert Group; support for the preparation of National Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs); and guidance to the LDC Fund.
Many developing countries, opposed by the US, supported references to the principles and provisions of the Convention.
The US proposed more \t\t\tgeneric language.
 MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA and the PHILIPPINES, said that including elements outside the Berlin Mandate in the framework compilation will sidetrack negotiations and suggested specifying that the compilation should be based on the Berlin Mandate.
BOLIVIA raised concerns about the CDM’s contribution to technology transfer and capacity-building and its probable non-additionality.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed continued REDD+ efforts and looked forward to concluding all outstanding issues under this agenda item, and to engaging in informal consultations on agriculture.
The US, on behalf of NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN, announced that this group would submit a proposal for a draft decision.
The US stressed that a long-term goal should inspire and guide collective effort and communicate this to the outside world.
The US called for defining countries that would submit biennial reports and highlighted clarity and frequency, including for capacity building purposes.
On the section noting that ocean storage can be carried out \t\tin two ways, via injection into the water column or via deposits on the \t\tsea floor, AUSTRALIA, supported by BELGIUM and CANADA, suggested noting \t\tthat ocean storage may 93potentially 94 be carried out in two ways.
On differentiation, INDIA, ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA, JORDAN, CUBA and BOLIVIA called for reference to CBDR, principles and provisions of the Convention, or its Article 4 (commitments).
TUVALU noted the problem of project crediting beyond the first commitment period.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that there are strong links between the AWG tracks and that a broader perspective will enhance efficiency.
AUSTRALIA said capacity building should be designed to facilitate monitoring and implementation.
JAPAN, CANADA and the US stressed enabling private sector investment and low-carbon growth, with the EU and the US clarifying that private finance will not replace public finance.
Rob Mason (UK) reported on the contact group discussions.
On the paragraph on establishing a quota, CANADA, supported by JAPAN, opposed identifying a specific percentage of CERs to come from countries with fewer than ten CDM projects, and JAPAN preferred language “encouraging parties” rather than “deciding” to use CERs coming from these countries.
METHODOLOGICAL ISSUES: The Chair 92s draft conclusions on national systems, adjustments and guidelines under Protocol Articles 5 (methodology), 7 (communication of information) and 8 (review of information) were adopted after agreement was reached on several minor amendments proposed by the EU.
CANADA proposed replacing "projections in the estimation of present and future greenhouse gas emissions" with "in the estimation of present and projections of greenhouse gas emissions" and deleting "[individual and] aggregated."
CHINA pointed out that the relevant NAMA information was compiled in the Registry.
While welcoming other initiatives, the EU stressed the \t\tUNFCCC \t\tas the global framework for addressing climate change, including \t\tadaptation and mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA and BRAZIL stated that issues related to differentiated treatment of parties under the CDM fall outside the AWG-KP’s mandate, and suggested noting that they would require amending Protocol Article 12 (CDM).
The EU agreed that there should be no single metric.
The EU, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Pakistan supported AOSIS’ proposal.
 \t\t\tRegarding the programme of work, South Africa, for the G-77/China, \t\t\tstressed the urgency of the AWG’s work and called for a focus on \t\t\t“what needs to be done.” China called for a timetable to guide the \t\t\tAWG’s work.
The G-77/CHINA stressed progressing on a draft decision on workstream 2 (pre-2020 ambition).
CHINA celebrated the establishment of the Platform and the contributions of indigenous peoples’ “unique traditional knowledge and know-how” to climate action, but expressed “serious concerns” about the content of the resolution.
MEXICO underscored consideration of the most vulnerable sectors, communities and ecosystems within countries.
 Following informal consultations chaired by Daniel Reifsnyder (US), the SBI adopted draft conclusions that state, inter alia, that the SBI: recognized the need to improve the comprehensiveness, comparability and detail of information provided by Annex II Parties; recognized the complementary roles of the public and private sectors and urged improved private sector participation; requested SBSTA to prepare recommendations on the guidelines for national communications by Annex I Parties for consideration at SBI-3; requested that the Secretariat prepare a report on technology transfer cooperation by the private sector; and invited Parties to submit comments on this subject by 1 April 1996.
COLOMBIA and CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, opposed by BRAZIL, said discussions on methodologies cannot be separated from discussions on financial mechanisms.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, emphasized the importance of the issue, while the EU and Japan stressed the need to avoid duplicating work under the SBSTA agenda item on Protocol Article 2.3
The EU suggested inviting the GEF and UNDP to report on the CDI at SB-13, and requesting other organizations to report on their capacity building activities.
BRAZIL opposed discussing \t\tdeforestation in a post-2012 regime in isolation from other climate \t\tchange drivers and mitigation actions and cautioned against links to \t\tmarket mechanisms.
NORWAY supported the US call for greater consistency in reviews.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that there was no consensus on arranging a workshop that would lead to a decision at COP-8.
On long-term cooperation, SOUTH AFRICA said a shared vision should include stabilizing atmospheric emissions and promoting sustainable development, as well as balancing mitigation and adaptation.
NEW ZEALAND stated that consideration of the SAR last week should clarify the importance of the AGBM.
CHINA, with BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed a e2 80 9cmitigation-centric e2 80 9d approach.
CANADA, with NORWAY, supported maintaining the existing definition of additionality.
JAPAN stressed the “enormous effort” to provide text in the annexes to everyone a month before the meeting, and that the annexes “were adopted two days ago.” BOLIVIA underscored the importance of environmental integrity, and indicated that the bracketed paragraph is “only meant to make more money with the CDM and for the investors without helping the climate.” Co-Chair Shimada indicated that all annexes remain in brackets.
POLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a menu approach, which takes account of various economic structures and attempts to maintain a high and stable rate of economic growth.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said COP 16 should demonstrate that the international community will deliver a legally-binding outcome by a clear deadline.
On the list of issues, AUSTRALIA proposed removing the list.
The EU and Australia, opposed by Malaysia, China and Argentina, said the report provided a sound basis to initiate the revised guidelines.
After informal consultations undertaken by Jim Penman (UK), SBI adopted conclusions and agreed to forward to the COP a draft decision, which was adopted on Friday, 12 December.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, opposed by Botswana, for the African Group, China, Brazil and the Philippines, reiterated support for establishing an expert group, highlighting the guiding role that such a body could play.
NEW ZEALAND proposed questions on: the purpose of the guidance; linkages between relevant Decision 1/CP.21 paragraphs; how to build on submitted INDCs and NDCs, and guidance from Lima and Paris; and ways to structure and progress work.
The US highlighted the need for a country-driven focus, and CHINA called for technical and financial assistance.
SOUTH AFRICA and others urged a clear reference to the “six-month rule,” and ZAMBIA and others proposed language on the amendments to be adopted by COP/MOP 5.
GRENADA reported on an informal ministerial meeting co-hosted by Grenada and Mexico in November with 42 AOSIS and non-AOSIS participants.
GHANA, supported by BENIN and BANGLADESH, proposed a way forward, including discussion of option A, followed by discussion of issues in option B that, as identified by the Secretariat, flow directly from the amendment of Annex B, and concluding with discussions on other issues raised in option B. SWITZERLAND noted the need to ensure adequate time to cover all issues in option B. BRAZIL said any discussion outside of the mandate is a “waste” of the group’s time.
 \t\tFollowing informal consultations early on \t\tFriday morning, Chair Pachauri, supported by China and the US, proposed \t\tdeleting the sentence, explaining that no consensus seemed possible and \t\tthat there was no need to refer to the figure in the section.
  Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, presented key elements of a new market-based mechanism that is: envisaged only for financing phase 3 of REDD+ activities; on an appropriate national scale; and with a “hybrid” trading approach, whereby a national reference level is defined ex-ante and an equivalent allowance is issued.
He expressed solidarity with the people of the Philippines, as did BOLIVIA, who stated that the current situation in that country is “a testimony of what can be expected to take place more frequently.” BOLIVIA cautioned against “empty promises” and described the low level of ambition as a “death sentence” to some people.
On the  , Brazil, for the G-77/China, supported by AOSIS and Tuvalu, called for mandatory inclusion of agreed activities to eliminate the “pick and choose nature” of current accounting and promoted a net-net accounting approach.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of CARICOM and HAITI, said BAHAMAS will sign the Protocol this week.
The Gambia, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested requesting the Secretariat to compile and synthesize the outcomes and recommendations from the regional workshops held so far, together with the implementation of these outcomes and recommendations.
BELARUS said the proposal is helpful for estimating whether parties are reaching a target.
CHINA agreed and requested that the change be reflected, inter alia, in the workshop report.
Parties discussed where, and how, capacity building is integrated in the mandates and work programmes of the LDC Expert Group (LEG) and the Consultative Group of Experts (CGE).
On decision text, AOSIS said a bracketed decision paragraph on a facilitative dialogue among parties to take stock of collective efforts in 2018 or 2019 must be included in the final decision to ensure the 1.5 c2 b0C temperature goal stays within reach.
On deepening understanding, NEW ZEALAND preferred removing reference to the AWG-LCA, noting it was captured under other UNFCCC bodies and would not be in existence much longer.
JAPAN emphasized that sectoral approaches are compatible with common but differentiated responsibilities and that the current CDM is insufficient.
The US, Canada, Japan, Costa Rica, Australia, Colombia, Honduras and Bolivia, opposed by the EU, China and Ghana, argued in favor of including sinks in the CDM.
On the budget for conference services, the US, JAPAN and CANADA said conference expenses should be borne by the UNFCCC budget and not the budget of the UN General Assembly (UNGA).
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stated that indicators and reductions should be based on concrete results and realistic analyses and assessments.
The EU noted the need to expand the range of tools available, and proposed language in this regard.
CHINA requested the Secretariat to explain the rationale of the items on the ADP’s provisional agenda.
The EU also emphasized that the starting point has significant implications for QELROs.
\t\tDescribing locust problems in the Sahel, MALI stressed the need to \t\tstrengthen early warning systems.
CHINA underscored that while IAR is meant to assess and review the commitments made by Annex I parties and their comparability of efforts, ICA is intended to increase transparency of voluntary mitigation actions, especially those that are internationally supported.
The EU said additional activities under Protocol Article 3.4 should not be applied during the first commitment period unless concerns related to scale, uncertainties and risks associated with sinks are resolved.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, supported holding consultations before AGBM 2.
AUSTRALIA called for a compilation of central textual proposals to assist work at SBSTA-13.
SWITZERLAND and the EU said the reports of ERTs should also include questions identified and how they had been handled.
The G-77/CHINA proposed adding, inter alia: the need for training in specialized fields; establishment of regional centers to facilitate a rapid response to natural disasters; and improved monitoring and forecasting of disease vectors.
The EU welcomed the planned in-session stocktaking to review efforts on assigned work.
On a paragraph requesting the SBSTA to provide information, JAPAN proposed deleting a reference to Protocol Articles 2.13 and 3.14, and said Parties needed to agree a process for delivery of the information.
GUATEMALA, speaking for a group of Central American countries, underscored that though the region is as vulnerable as other regions, it lacks the support and recognition given to others.
 \t\tLuxembourg, for the EU, urged delegates to build on the positive \t\texperience of the Seminar of Governmental Experts, and supported setting \t\tin motion deliberations on the post-2012 period.
NORWAY supported discussion of bunker fuels and suggested using the new submission by the Cook Islands (FCCC/AWGLCA/2010/MISC.2/Add.1) to bridge gaps on this issue.
VENEZUELA said that interpretation should be left to the COP.
Tonga, for AOSIS, called for a decision at COP 17 on activities under the work programme on loss and damage and agreement on the goal of establishing an international mechanism on loss and damage at COP 18.
He underscored the need for clarity on how much financial support developed countries will be providing to developing countries, saying the amount must exceed US$100 billion in 2020.
He proposed amending item 8 to read “modalities and guidelines for a process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, which could be employed by other developing countries.” AUSTRALIA and the US opposed this proposal, stressing that it does not reflect balance, while TANZANIA and SAUDI ARABIA supported the proposal.
On paragraph 21.1 on quantifiability, BRAZIL suggested quantifiability, comparability and transparency.
CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA supported simplifying accreditation of Designated Operational Entities (DOEs) and CHINA and others called for more transparency.
The ARAB GROUP underscored that any goal that threatens their sustainable development, or ability to eradicate poverty and ensure food security will not be acceptable.
NORWAY emphasized the need for global emissions to peak at the earliest possible time and proposed that a review process be conducted regularly.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, said that the negative implications of response measures on developing countries must be minimized.
MOROCCO highlighted the interaction between the three mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND supported: a smooth transition to a broader agreement; defining a framework to ensure continuity after 2012; using the substance of the Chair’s revised text as a basis; and identifying options, including what legal form can be immediately operative.
COLOMBIA, PARAGUAY, and CHILE said projects should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
On the current negotiations at COP-7, SWITZERLAND said it could not accept changes that weaken the Bonn Agreements, and stated that no country can shirk its responsibilities, especially if it is a major country in the ratification process.
The LDCs and Colombia, for AILAC, said adaptation communications should clarify needs and priorities.
 AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, said that failure to mitigate emissions has resulted in the need to increase adaptation measures.
The NETHERLANDS highlighted that his country is on track to meet its commitments under both commitment periods of the Kyoto Protocol, noting its non-EU ETS target of a 16% emission reduction by 2020, compared to 2005 levels.
CANADA supported expanding the analysis using the same \t\tindicators for all countries and to draw out aspects of national \t\tcircumstances.
The EU said objections to the protocol may remain at the end of COP-3 and a decision-making procedure would be needed.
• notes that existing modalities for implementing NAPA priorities are partially addressing the other elements of the LDC work programme and encouraged the LDC Fund to support technology elements of the work programme; and
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported a work plan with broad guidelines and milestones for continuing work to 2015, as well as focused and technical work and mitigation action in addition to what is already on the table.
Spain, for the EU, supported the Chair\'s proposal for moving forward and said the Chair’s text can facilitate negotiations, but noted room for improvement regarding more ambitious emission reductions.
A discussion of four draft proposals, presented by AUSTRALIA, the EU, the G-77/CHINA and the US, dominated the deliberations.
A group representative said the EU position paper was within the ambit of the review.
SINGAPORE highlighted the potential role for wetlands.
GERMANY discussed a German-Malaysian project on \t\t\tapproaches for the reduction of air pollutants in the context of \t\t\tsustainable urban traffic systems, highlighting public \t\t\ttransportation options and the role of government.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to increase the pace of negotiations and called for a clear vision of necessary deliverables in Copenhagen, including a new treaty, supported by complementary decisions.
The EU, Japan, Australia and others once again proposed joining this item with Protocol Article 3.14 under the SBI, while the G-77/China said the item should be considered separately, and proposed a SBSTA contact group.
Regarding the need for a channel for communicating impacts and consequences of policies and measures in paragraph 14, NEW ZEALAND, supported by the EU and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, identified national communications as the appropriate channel for such reporting.
On JI, the US and AUSTRALIA urged inclusion of the CDM text on baselines and additionality.
The US requested that the chapeau of the decision recall paragraph 12 of the IPCC COI policy, which states that author teams are to include individuals with different perspectives and affiliations.
SENEGAL emphasized the need for private sector engagement.
NORWAY thought it was premature to draw conclusions from the pilot phase at this time and proposed the establishment of an AIJ forum at SBSTA’s December 1996 meeting.
AUSTRALIA called for more effective treatment of LULUCF and CCS.
He noted that the GEF had agreed to provide US$1.5 million which was "the absolute minimum," but added that the GEF had recently stated that its draft operational strategy did not envisage the provision of such large sums for enabling activities.
AOSIS noted that the objective should be to address the urgent and immediate needs of developing countries especially SIDS, LDCs, and African countries.
The EU underscored the need to discuss how the Convention principles will be applied in a post-2020 framework so all parties take on commitments, and that any work going forward must adhere to the two workstreams.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NORWAY, said the workstreams should not be seen as competitive but rather as complementary.
The EU stressed that it “stands behind the Kyoto Protocol” and will deliver on its commitments.
The EU highlighted that a shared vision requires efforts by all parties.
ARGENTINA highlighted the need for a long-term vision that reflects the Convention’s principles.
 Hugh Sealy (Maldives) and Kelley Kizzier (EU) co-chaired the contact group.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, asked the Co-Chairs to explain the added value of their proposed heads of delegation meetings.
Canada and the US stressed that INDCs relate to mitigation.
CHINA noted a lack of clarity on how streamlining would be done, and supported keeping compilation texts to preserve all views.
The EU commented on discussions with the Global Environment Facility (GEF) concerning the provision of adequate funding based on the Cancun mandate.
BOLIVIA underscored that deciding which proposals in the elements text are alike is an exercise for parties, not the Secretariat, to undertake.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported by JAMAICA, proposed referring to the decision as the e2 80 9cLima Work Programme on Gender.
Andrew Prag, OECD, discussed tracking and reporting unit movements in a uniform format, the use of registries and ensuring accounting rules.
Nicaragua, for SICA, proposed adopting a programme on education and training under Convention Article 6 and said priority should be given to the consideration of loss and damage over risk assessment.
BELGIUM requested inclusion of a \t\treference to the time scale of storage noted elsewhere in the SPM.
NORWAY, CANADA and the US suggested that goals be decided before developing institutional arrangements.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against setting a precedent by not forwarding any draft texts to the next session.
On finance commitments, Malaysia, for the G-77/China, said developed countries should provide financial support in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
The UK
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted: a comprehensive approach that includes a variety of actions; and the application of the Convention’s principles and provisions.
He noted that non-Annex I Parties are well ahead in meeting their existing commitments and, with CHINA, cautioned that this item was not intended to promote the FCCC, but to help some countries avoid existing commitments.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said that the role of the ERT should end once it submits its report to the Secretariat and that the COP/MOP should merely have an appellate role.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said pledges and actions from Copenhagen and Cancun should set the groundwork for future efforts.
The G-77/CHINA said the Adaptation Committee should report directly to the COP, and highlighted linkages with other institutional arrangements.
China, for the G-77/China, supported by Brazil and Bolivia, suggested 1 July 2011 as the date for Annex I sixth national communications.
CHILE, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Peru and the Dominican Republic, noted that a balanced package of decisions is “neither nebulous nor vague.”
BRAZIL emphasized the need to differentiate between historical responsibilities that actually happened and future responsibility based on projections.
The US sought clarification \t\t\tregarding attribution of costs between the Protocol and the \t\t\tConvention.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said the communications should show how parties are contributing to the global goal on adaptation, without being punitive.
 In its decision (FCCC/CP/2008/L.5), the COP, inter alia, requests the GEF to: fully address issues raised over the implementation of the RAF; provide information on a regular basis on the composition and objective of co-financing for projects funded by the GEF; continue to improve access for all developing countries, in particular LDCs, SIDS and countries in Africa, to the GEF’s resources; and continue to encourage its implementing and executing agencies to perform their functions as efficiently and transparently as possible, in accordance with guidance from the COP.
BRAZIL highlighted burden sharing and historical responsibility.
Calling for open, transparent and inclusive negotiations, NIGERIA noted that lack of progress under the AWG-LCA stems from “deep distrust and lack of faith in the negotiation process.” BANGLADESH noted the need to agree on a quick start fund and said a legally-binding instrument must be the goal.
On the definition of "forest," TUVALU supported the biome approach, and said it should be elaborated by COP-7.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed that once Annex I parties’ national mitigation potential has been fully used, the level of ambition could be increased through the flexibility mechanisms.
The US said legally-binding consequences need not be punitive and highlighted that she supported a deduction from the following commitment period with a 1.3% penalty rate as well as a restriction on the transfer of units also applicable to Protocol Article 4 (joint fulfillment) Parties.
On eligibility to raise issues, the UK explained that the mere provision of information would not 93trigger 94 the compliance procedure, but that it would be triggered by whatever causes the compliance procedure to start considering a claim.
CHINA noted that the IMO’s ship energy efficiency regulations do not reflect the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in a full and objective manner, and requested that the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) consider countries’ differentiated responsibilities.
 Thailand, for G-77/CHINA, stressed: adaptation communications as an input to the global stocktake and guidance aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity; and increasing resilience without creating additional burdens.
Poland, for the European Union (EU), reiterated their willingness to consider a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol contingent on agreement on process for a legally binding comprehensive framework.
SINGAPORE, supported by many countries, suggested: convening spin-off groups for those issues whose consideration was explicitly mandated by COP 17; considering the other issues in a single AWG-LCA contact group where parties could decide on further work, including by establishing spin-off groups if necessary; and adopting the agenda provisionally.
On the CGE, Contact Group Chair Ojoo-Massawa stressed that paragraphs relating to NAPAs and the LDC Expert Group remained bracketed pending discussions in the LDC group.
The US said this issue should be discussed in the FiTT.
On mitigation commitments or actions, the EU, supported by NORWAY, highlighted the level of ambition as the core of the discussions, and proposed that the Secretariat prepare a technical paper on emission reduction pledges by developed countries.
He noted that sections of the EU proposal in the Framework Compilation should be replaced with the new EU common position.
The Chair clarified that due to time constraints, the contact group could not wait for consideration of issues raised by the US and proposed addressing them in the next session.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), called for progress on: the MRV package, ICA technical expert teams; NAMA registry prototype; work programme on loss and damage; candidates to host the Climate Technology Centre (CTC); Adaptation Fund; and review of the design of the commitment period reserve.
Stressing the importance of the paragraph, Zambia, for the LDCs, called for retaining the paragraph.
The UK, with Slovenia, noted that holding approval sessions just after UNFCCC meetings minimizes the impact of IPCC products.
Parties also agreed to a proposal by AUSTRALIA to identify e2 80 9cbaskets e2 80 9d of issues, in order to label the paragraphs.
The EU recognized Kazakhstan’s aspiration to join Annex B, while highlighting the need to comply with legal requirements relating to Annex B amendments.
NEW ZEALAND and the EU said the COP/MOP was the central policy-making body, but should not directly intervene in a specific case by taking over the judicial/ legal body 92s functions.
INDONESIA suggested ranges of at least 40% from 1990 levels by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
FINLAND said international coordination is needed in the case of economic instruments.
INDONESIA requested clarification of mechanisms to assess vulnerability of developing countries.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed appreciation of Spain’s announcement on financial support.
On the second review of the adequacy of Article 4.2 (a) and (b), VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA and supported by TOGO, said that: COP-4\'s second review must respect the FCCC mandate, as set out in Article 2(d); COP-4\'s review must not be distracted by extraneous consideration of new commitments for non-Annex I Parties; COP-4 should convene the next review at the same time as the review at COP/MOP-2 in accordance with Article 9.2 of the Protocol; and subsequent reviews should take place in the year preceding the termination of successive Protocol commitment periods.
A contact group on the LDC Fund will be co-chaired by Margaret Sangarwe (Zimbabwe) and Michelle Campbell (Canada).
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said the AWG-KP should establish emission reduction ranges, distribute responsibility, and apply simplicity and continuity to means and methodologies.
SAMOA said that since Article 7 (communication of information) already requested Parties to communicate what they intended to do in order to comply with its commitments, a "compliance action plan" should go further.
The US highlighted that risk insurance is an implementation issue, not a conceptual issue, and noted the need to eliminate the distinction between risk reduction and adaptation.
A Lead Author referred the US to a \t\t\tbox on Hurricane Katrina.
INDIA opposed proposals for new annexes x, y and z, and called for: a workshop on the implications of the legal nature of the new agreement; clarification on how IPCC assessment reports will inform the negotiations; and ensuring that decisions on workstream 2 (pre-2020 ambition) are finalized before Paris.
SAMOA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA and LUXEMBOURG called for strong and enforceable rules and procedures that penalize non-compliance.
SWITZERLAND noted that some common measures, such as taxation of aviation fuel, are necessary and important for small countries with limited home markets.
Some, however, returned to what was on their minds coming into the meeting, namely the question of US participation in the Paris Agreement, concerned over the implications not only for COP 23, but for the future of the regime.
BANGLADESH proposed preparing national adaptation action plans and financial needs assessments.
The EU stressed that the formulation on loss and damage is “deeply problematic.” TIMOR LESTE called for a standalone mechanism for loss and damage.
 In the morning ADP roundtable on workstream 2, Nauru, for AOSIS, presented draft decision text on “enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition,” highlighting that it provides a detailed ADP work plan for 2013.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said based on IPCC projections of atmospheric CO2 stabilization levels and temperature increase, a level of 550 parts per million should guide limitation and reduction efforts.
CHINA urged Annex I \t\tcountries to agree on new emission reduction targets.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, advocated REDD+ as key to achieving global GHG reduction targets.
The GAMBIA emphasized gender equity.
PAKISTAN called for a reference to water security.
The AFRICAN GROUP, \t\tSAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and TANZANIA called for work on the CDM.
BRAZIL urged Annex I countries to accept the mandatory application of Protocol Article 3.4 (land management activities), stressing that these are generally source activities and leaving them out would impact the integrity of LULUCF as a whole.
Co-Chair Dovland suggested retaining the G-77/CHINA proposal in brackets and returning to it once work on the section on Article 7.4 was completed.
INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA, VENEZUELA, TAJIKISTAN, ZIMBABWE and others highlighted the need for a transparent and inclusive negotiating process.
The US said proposals will have to be concluded early in 1997 for adoption at COP-3.
MEXICO, CHINA and TURKEY highlighted the need for a financial mechanism for development and transfer of technologies.
Saying that the world has agreed to mobilize around US$3 billion for REDD since consensus on future action was reached in Bali, Papua New Guinea reiterated the need to address policy approaches and positive incentives.
 AUSTRALIA, supporting the EU on the preparation of guidelines, said that the national communications of all Parties was central to the FCCC and that the development of guidelines should be undertaken in a timely fashion.
GRENADA said it should be part of a high level political package and not buried under a subsidiary body, calling for a new body to conduct the Review and to report directly to the COP.
The EU said TEMs should focus on facilitating action, and called for exploring how a web-based presence would add value to existing tools.
AUSTRALIA supported the revisions to guidelines but called for work on defining anthropogenic emissions.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for a follow-up agreement to the Protocol in order for industrialized countries to continue and intensify their emission reduction commitments, and called on all Annex I countries to take the lead in achieving the 2°C objective.
On response measures, SAUDI ARABIA said his country will not support the new agreement if it does not adequately address the issue.
AUSTRALIA proposed exploring, inter alia: gaps in, and improvements to, existing mechanisms; the need and funding for a new institution for capacity building; and a middle ground between whether or not to have a new institution.
SAMOA supported the reference manual, as it would ensure consistency in setting baselines.
Nauru, for AOSIS stated that: the long-term global goal should be a key research area discussed during the SBSTA research dialogue and that the focus should be on vulnerable developing countries.
JAPAN called for in-session conceptual discussions.
CHINA noted that one of the functions should be the provision of financial resources, primarily from the public sector.
CANADA agreed on the need to consider equity.
In the \t\tensuing discussion, participants addressed, inter alia, issues of \t\tspatial and temporal scale, uncertainties as an intrinsic part of \t\tscientific progress, the lack of insurance mechanisms in SIDS, and risk \t\tperceptions.
The US, supported by Australia, suggested that parties focus discussions on how to undertake the consolidation of response measures issues.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted work on ocean sequestration under the IMO, while NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, the EU and AOSIS raised concerns over the inclusion of ocean sequestration under the CDM.
The US explained that market mechanisms should be voluntary and non-exclusive, allowing countries to also establish their own markets and arrangements.
The EU said adequacy of commitments should be the responsibility of an ad hoc committee under the SBI.
ARGENTINA suggested differentiating between e2 80 9cwhat e2 80 9d and e2 80 9chow e2 80 9d elements.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, underscored the importance of multilateral solutions and supported working through the IMO and ICAO while respecting the principles of the Convention and avoiding unilateral measures.
The UK, supported by the US, noted a piecemeal approach to deciding on special reports in the future has to be avoided.
Speaking for the second drafting group, GHANA said only the section on capacity building had been considered.
JAPAN emphasized public research and development \t\tinvestment in the energy sector, subsidies for renewable energies, and \t\tprotection of intellectual property rights.
TUVALU supported further work on New Zealand’s proposal, emphasizing the need for clarification on, inter alia, defining forests and the potential perverse incentives for the conversion of natural forests into productive ones.
AUSTRALIA suggested that indicators could be negotiated through a bottom-up approach.
 The EU urged the SBSTA to play a supervisory role for methodological work and requested that the Secretariat review means of funding work on methodologies.
Belarus, the EU and Ukraine favored simplifying amendment procedures.
The US highlighted technology as critical for lowering the costs of emission reductions.
TUVALU said he \t\twould like to see the concerns of SIDS and LDCs reflected in the draft.
BRAZIL highlighted the lack of comparability across countries in the multilateral assessment due to the use of different metrics.
SUDAN called for pledges to replenish funds under the Convention.
The \t\tmeeting involved contributions from representatives of the International \t\tInstitute for Sustainable Development, International Energy Agency, \t\tUniversity College London and various other organizations, as well as \t\tgovernment officials from Saudi Arabia, Australia, the EU and others.
The US said 93different sets of people 94 would exercise these functions, and the EU suggested one body with two distinctive branches.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the text needed elaboration on issues such as forestry, international consultation and analysis (ICA) for developing countries, mitigation and monitoring, review and verification (MRV), as well as tighter, more operative language.
NORWAY, the EU and JAPAN disagreed.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for prioritizing this workstream.
The EU stated that specific reporting guidelines for regional integration organizations (RIOs) were not necessary.
The PHILIPPINES noted misconceptions on AIJ and CHINA, MALAYSIA and INDIA noted the “blurring” of AIJ and JI.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, lamented that progress remained uneven across the PAWP and that parties are not leaving Bangkok with a textual basis for negotiations.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, BRAZIL and the LDCs, opposed by the LMDCs, proposed identifying elements that will go into a decision text.
UGANDA proposed a permanent clearing-house to streamline funding.
Scene-setting presentations by the UNFCCC Secretariat, the EU, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) focused on: existing accounting arrangements under the Convention; enhancing accounting modalities; reaching a mutual understanding on what is counted as climate finance, including core principles; and IATI experiences in increasing transparency of information.
On funding targeted to climate \t\tchange, he noted that funding is available from: bilateral activities of \t\tParties; multilateral activities such as the GEF, the World Bank or \t\tregional banks; the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF); the LDC Fund (LDCF); \t\tfinancial flows generated by Joint Implementation/Clean Development \t\tMechanism projects; and private sector investments.
MEXICO underscored its commitment to mechanisms and processes that increase the participation of observers.
BOLIVIA requested relating the numbers in these documents to numbers on the share of emission reductions that Annex B parties achieved through the flexibility mechanisms.
The EU highlighted the urgency of finalizing draft decision text in Durban in order to operationalize the Committee.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for “effective and fair” participation of all parties and supported creating a contact group on this item at COP 22.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern where no progress was made due to time constraints.
Regarding "[issuance and cancellation of assigned amounts (AAs) related to Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4]" the G-77/China, supported by the EU and US, suggested referring to "additions" and "subtractions" from AAs in the guidelines under Article 7.
COLOMBIA, with MALAYSIA, underscored the importance of keeping REDD on the agenda.
In this regard, resistance by four countries e2 80 94Saudi Arabia, the US, Russia, and Kuwait e2 80 94to “welcome” the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C during the first week created a media tsunami, which may have compensated for the lack of strong language on the report in the final package decision.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA, NIGERIA, OMAN, EGYPT, ALGERIA, QATAR, PAKISTAN, KUWAIT, and \t\tUNITED ARAB EMIRATES supported the additions.
The US said cost implications must be noted.
The US noted that the chapter did not include research and development policies.
On paragraph 7 on challenges of assessing potential consequences, the EU, opposed by South Africa, for the G-77/China, proposed replacing reference to “the assessment of consequences of tools, policies, measures and methodologies available to Annex I Parties” with “the assessment of consequences of mitigation actions taken by Parties.” Both options remain in the text.
On process and possible outcomes of COP 23, the EU said it was not convinced that compilations of submissions or parties’ views are an efficient way to conduct the process.
COSTA RICA emphasized that the group should have the mandate to clarify the legal form.
COLOMBIA, with BRAZIL, supported consideration of agriculture and water resource management under existing agenda items.
On institutional arrangements for capacity building, China, for the G-77/CHINA, agreed to present a consolidation proposal for options a and b under paragraph 140.2.
On emissions trading, the US questioned the inclusion of language on rights and entitlements of Annex I Parties.
JAPAN said the contact group’s work should not duplicate parties’ efforts and noted that his country’s proposal for a new protocol is for a single legally-binding instrument.
CANADA identified the need for a focus on enhancing information on baselines and projections.
NIGERIA noted that although participation of stakeholders has been positive, the UNFCCC is an intergovernmental process.
 Delegates continued seeking clarification and exchanging views on the finance section of the non-paper (ADP.2014.11.NonPaper), which NICARAGUA, with many developing countries, opposed as e2 80 9ca far cry from the Convention and previous decisions.
Replying to a question from BURKINA FASO on compensation, Banuri said he did not believe that large financial transfers provided long-term benefits.
Saudi Arabia emphasized adaptation to response measures, and \t\tCanada, the EU and many others stressed the need to engage experts and \t\tpractitioners and encourage long-term cooperation.
VENEZUELA stressed the need to keep the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA separate.
The G-77/CHINA called for harmonization of GEF strategies with those of FCCC, specifically: more flexible processes; clarifying incremental cost; removing conditionalities from GEF replenishment negotiations; and eliminating criteria of cost-effectiveness and avoiding duplication in funding for national communications.
 \t\tBelgium, supported by the UK and \t\tNetherlands, proposed a process for considering the future of the IPCC, \t\tsuggesting written submissions for consideration at IPCC-28.
MALAWI and BENIN welcomed the production of the brochure and \t\tother outreach activities, while SYRIA, IRAN, GHANA, the GAMBIA, SIERRA \t\tLEONE, KENYA and others stressed the importance of assistance to \t\tdeveloping countries.
Many favored 2001 for the next communication, but SWITZERLAND said information on achievement of stabilization by 2000 could not be provided until 2002.
CHINA cited the lessons of the past.
A developing country added that paragraphs 5-8 (requirement for increasingly global participation, long-term stabilization, Article 4.2(g) (FCCC provision for voluntary commitments), and development of the FCCC) in the EU position paper on review of adequacy were extraneous.
Saying that OPEC members would be the most adversely affected, he stressed the need to design a support mechanism.
 The contact group convened, co-chaired by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and focusing on input to the co-chairs’ informal note on Agreement Article 6.2 (ITMOs).
AUSTRALIA proposed a leveraging facility, for instance, scaling up Climate Technology Initiative’s Private Financing Advisory Network (PFAN).
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA opposed any limits on the CDM.
The US also stressed the need for maintaining the intellectual objectivity of the IPCC.
INDIA said a long-term goal should be linked to other goals such as on finance and technology transfer.
With AUSTRALIA, he added there should be a wide variety of sources of information that the compliance body could use, as appropriate.
The EU, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and the Russian Federation rejected the oral amendment.
 VANUATU advocated for a fund for LDCs that do not have ready access to GEF funds.
The US suggested compliance can be ensured at a domestic level.
CHINA, PERU, and MALAYSIA urged moving ahead by focusing on practical measures.
The EU observed that the draft governing instrument is a compromise but agreement should be reached on it as part of a balanced package, and further discussions would be counterproductive.
Many delegates welcomed the G-77/CHINA proposal for a draft decision on capacity building (FCCC/SBSTA/1999/MISC.9) for developing countries, which contains a list of developing country needs, as a basis for adopting a decision at COP-5.
Developing country Parties insisted that a G-77/CHINA draft decision provide the basis for the deliberations.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that progress in the negotiations should be made based on COP 15 outcomes, including the Copenhagen Accord, and expressed conviction that agreement can be reached at COP 16.
  The spin-off group on technology development and transfer (Article 7), and capacity building (Article 8), and related decisions, was co-facilitated by Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu (Democratic Republic of Congo) and Artur Runge-Metzger (EU).
The EU preferred referring to "independent entities."
The PHILIPPINES highlighted means of implementation.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stated preference for an omnibus decision in 2018.
When considering the Draft Guidance on Methodologies for Adjustments under Article 5.2, the EU, with Switzerland and Slovakia, said the trial period on inventory review would provide the IPCC with the information on problems to be addressed.
Several countries, opposed by AUSTRALIA and the US, also requested attribution of proposals.
 SRI LANKA said a protocol like AOSIS’s can be adopted.
HUNGARY, for the EITs, noted the importance of defining a timeframe and emphasized the need for an early start to capacity building.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed reservations on intersessional workshops.
NEW ZEALAND and the EU said this might duplicate the work of the SBI in reviewing national communications.
SAUDI ARABIA and the US, opposed by SWITZERLAND, highlighted provision for CO2 sequestration technologies.
She agreed to take the lead on informal consultations with Brazil and the EU, to look for ways to resolve the issue.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the AWG-LCA must set commitments for developed countries that are not Protocol parties that are comparable to those taken by other developed countries under the Protocol in the second commitment period.
NORWAY said the Kyoto Protocol alone is not enough to achieve a relevant reduction of global emissions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, and AUSTRALIA also supported the proposal, with AUSTRALIA saying that “governments cannot afford another six million dollar agenda.” BOLIVIA requested the meeting’s record reflect that Decision 1.CP/16 was adopted despite the formal and explicit objection by one party to the Convention.
 The NETHERLANDS said the IPCC report presents the best available science and, although the information is incomplete, the AGBM must make initial judgments now.
Highlighting the need to significantly scale up financial resources, JAPAN cautioned against excluding ODA.
On transparency, the AFRICAN GROUP raised concerns about brackets around “flexibility options,” stressed tracking progress on all elements of the NDCs, and, with AOSIS, called for guidance on reporting loss and damage.
BRAZIL said the attempt to reopen discussion of all elements of the Kyoto Protocol is an “attempt to kill the Kyoto Protocol.” AUSTRALIA noted that there is no point continuing discussions in the numbers group if discussions on option B are not undertaken, due to the need for legal certainty on their proposals.
Many hoped the Protocol could enter into force by the WSSD in August 2002, with the EU and Japan announcing their Protocol ratifications prior to the Summit.
Parties deliberated whether the preparation of national communications has provided a "valuable opportunity" for capacity building, with the G-77/CHINA urging deletion of this reference.
The US, SWITZERLAND, SOUTH AFRICA, the EU, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, BOTSWANA and NORWAY supported developing draft conclusions and a draft decision covering substantial matters.
MICRONESIA said the eligibility criteria \t\tfor adaptation funds should be streamlined.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the US said the agreement should be primarily facilitative, while BOLIVIA suggested a tribunal.
  On Tuesday, 21 October, Ulrika Raab, Swedish Energy Agency, facilitated a TEM where Canada, the UK and the United Arab Emirates shared perspectives on carbon capture and storage (CCS) options, barriers and opportunities, and an expert panel of business representatives presented on CCS implementation and options for carbon usage.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA also suggested that activities to combat climate change need to be beneficial for the economy and that action should not impinge on competitiveness.
Papua New Guinea, for the Coalition of Rainforest Nations, emphasized the role of REDD+ and, with Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), stressed continuation of the Kyoto Protocol, and underscored that the run-up to Durban is the last chance to avoid gaps between commitment periods.
MEXICO said his country could go along with the G-77/China proposal.
NEW ZEALAND expressed concern that the crediting period will not promote sustainable forest management, and urged reconsideration of the issue after 2012.
South Africa, with Colombia, Grenada, for AOSIS, Australia, Spain, for the EU, Jamaica, Bolivia, Nigeria, Guatemala, and Papua New Guinea, regretted the lack of an outcome on this item and supported further discussions at SBSTA 33.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern over slow progress on finance-related issues, and called for more time to consider items 3 and 5.
CHINA called for assessed contributions by developed countries, expressed as a percentage of annual GDP.
SRI LANKA, supported by many, called for linking agricultural adaptation to the Technology and Finance Mechanisms.
The US, supported by TUVALU and the EU, suggested identifying elements unique to REDD-plus, with the US highlighting the importance of participatory processes and environmental and social safeguards.
COLOMBIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed reference to LDCs, SIDS and Africa in text on facilitating work on methodologies in certain countries, while the EU and others supported it.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA and SUDAN proposed including attributions in the text.
The CCAC Working Group approved over US$10 million for initiatives to reduce short-lived climate pollutants, including from the agricultural sector and cooking, heating and lighting.
JAPAN said bunker fuel emissions must be controlled, and that reduction measures and methodologies should be treated simultaneously.
Regarding technology development and transfer, the US said the issue should be considered as part of a broader strategy on mitigation and adaptation.
BANGLADESH asked for special consideration of LDCs and SIDS to be reintroduced in Article 6 (finance).
INDIA, the UAE, CHINA, BELIZE and TUVALU opposed.
MEXICO recognized the need for a platform to address response measures, calling for “a central and unique space” to address response measures.
On Facilitator Khan’s proposal to hold an informal question and answer session with the IMO and ICAO, the EU, MICRONESIA, TUVALU and NORWAY supported it, while VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN opposed.
TUVALU expressed concern with the manner in which consultations on REDD+ were undertaken in Cancun, highlighting that no contact group meetings were convened to consider the issue or approve conclusions or documents.
Responding to questions, he described the capture and utilization of methane from landfills, and the UK e2 80 99s interim renewable energy targets.
While most delegations were generally supportive of AIJ, several, including the G-77/CHINA, COLOMBIA, INDIA, URUGUAY, the PHILIPPINES and EL SALVADOR, expressed the need to better distinguish between AIJ projects and those implemented jointly between Annex I Parties.
Much of the discussion centered on a proposal from the EU for a 15% cut in a basket of three greenhouse gases (GHG) by the year 2010 compared to 1990 emissions levels.
NIGERIA said that modalities, training and funds for preparing non-Annex I Parties\' national communications needed to be addressed.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Angola, for the LDCs, Maldives, for AOSIS, and Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, said they would upload their statements to the UNFCCC website.
VENEZUELA noted the need to transform unsustainable lifestyles and cautioned against leaving policy setting to the markets.
ICELAND stressed the need to incorporate a gender perspective.
BOLIVIA underscored that some parties have not submitted their fifth national communications, identifying the need to encourage submission.
GREECE stressed the importance of scientific data for sound climate change policies.
CHINA said development and \t\ttransfer of technology play an important role in adaptation.
CANADA underlined engaging non-state actors.
BOLIVIA, opposed by BRAZIL and PERU, called for simultaneous forward movement on the issue of sinks in the CDM in the contact groups on both LULUCF and the mechanisms.
BRAZIL suggested a general basis, with layers of detail depending on the kind of NDC or the purpose of the information provided.
CANADA supported the findings in the first set of SBSTA conclusions and noted that they seemed to have the support of most Parties.
VENEZUELA proposed including a provision that 50% of all proceeds from market-based activities, programmes and projects be made available to fund adaptation activities in developing countries.
Although the Executive-Secretary of the Interim Secretariat noted that some costs would only be determined after further consultations with the German Government, the COP approved the Convention budget for the biennium 1996-1997, amounting to US$18,664,200.
SAUDI \t\tARABIA expressed concern about the lack of action on adaptation.
The US and EU requested that text on the provision of financial and technical support for the implementation of the framework through the "GEF within its mandate" be bracketed.
Belize, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for common reporting formats and an agreement on a simple set of definitions to assess climate finance trends.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: Chair El Ghaouth (Mauritania) informed delegates that a drafting group had been working on a draft text compiling proposals by the EU, the G-77/CHINA and others, and suggested that the contact group adjourn to allow the drafting group to continue its work.
Sudan, for the African Group, proposed a formula for inscribing differentiation in the relevant sections: state the level of obligation or precision for developed and developing countries; provide flexibility for developing countries, such as “all countries willing to do so,” which Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported; and provide further flexibility for African countries, LDCs and SIDS.
UNFCCC Executive Secretary Espinosa said COP 22 had proven to be a conference for implementation and joint action, citing, inter alia, the presentation of the US$100 billion roadmap, exceeding the US$80 million target for the Adaptation Fund in 2016, pledges to NAPs and capacity building, and large-scale private investments.
 The EU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, said that this issue should be addressed through the REDD+ discussions under the AWG-LCA and LULUCF discussions under the AWG-KP.
OPENING STATEMENTS: Many speakers, including the EU, UMBRELLA GROUP and G-77/CHINA, urged progress on national adaptation plans and loss and damage.
The G-77/CHINA urged no prejudgement on the issue of sinks in the CDM.
NEW ZEALAND sought greater representation of Annex I Parties.
The EU and SWITZERLAND said the Fund should be part of the post-2012 regime and able to attract additional funding.
With Mali, Rwanda, Antigua and Barbuda and Timor-Leste, she opposed the co-financing requirement, which she said is particularly burdensome for LDCs.
On the linkage to the mechanisms, JAPAN proposed that any Party should be able to use the mechanisms until non-compliance with Articles 5 and/or 7 is proven.
The EU and SWITZERLAND supported including reference to the IPCC AR4.
 The EU identified negative consequences of delayed action, including higher costs, technological lock-in and the danger of surpassing critical thresholds.
The US called for focusing on one or two concepts.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, said he was pleased to have adopted the rules, but lamented parties’ inability to complete work on Article 6 and called for further addressing loss and damage.
Noting the political signal from Bangkok is “not encouraging,” Egypt, for the Arab Group, said agreeing on the second commitment period is the prerequisite for negotiations leading to Durban.
CHINA identified a number of elements, including differentiation.
The EU highlighted: the issue of unmet need, particularly in order to improve regional distribution of CDM projects; standardized baselines; understaffing of the Secretariat; terms of reference for CDM EB members; and the possibility of a full-time CDB EB chair.
Japan, supported by Canada, noted the tabling of a draft proposal by the Umbrella Group (a loose alliance of Annex I Parties that includes the US, Canada, Australia, Japan, Norway, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, and New Zealand) on the creation of a new "window" in the GEF to channel funding for the issues discussed in "Box A", the streamlining of the GEF; and special consideration for LDCs and SIDS.
The US encouraged IMO and ICAO to elaborate on the guidelines for a data collection system.
ICELAND announced a goal of being a carbon neutral society by 2050, while JAPAN set out a goal of 60-80% reductions by 2050, and CANADA stated the objective of meeting 90% of electricity needs from non-emitting sources by 2020.
 : On this item (FCCC/SB/2013/MISC.3 &amp; Add.1), Malawi, for the LDCs, said that no new bodies should be established.
JAPAN, the EU, CHINA, US, AUSTRALIA and others said discussions should be carried out under the AWG-LCA to avoid duplication of work, while NEW ZEALAND and SOUTH AFRICA said work should also continue under SBSTA.
AOSIS called for addressing losses from damages.
 SAUDI ARABIA said that analysis and assessment should be given sufficient time in order to facilitate negotiations on any future commitments.
INDIA recalled that the debate at Kyoto rejected the idea of voluntary commitments, stating it was not implied in the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said methodologies and approaches in developing countries should be nationally determined.
COLOMBIA emphasized that ensuring linkages between financial institutions under the Convention will be crucial in the new climate agreement.
CHINA sought criteria for the use of information.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for clarity on the organization of work, noting that many of the items on the proposed agenda had already been addressed.
SOUTH AFRICA identified uncertainty over legal form as a “major obstacle” to the negotiations and said decision on this issue “will unblock many issues.” She called for a “pragmatic approach,” noting that the work by the COP, COP/MOP and the two AWGs must be complementary and mutually supportive.
Hartmut Behrend, Environment Directorate-General, European Commission (EC), reported on the adoption of a new Monitoring Decision to harmonize P&amp;Ms in the 25 EU Member States.
BANGLADESH proposed deep cuts, an early peaking year for global emissions and, with GHANA and EGYPT, an adaptation protocol.
AUSTRALIA stressed ensuring the availability of financial resources.
The US underscored that guidance must recognize that parties have a common path but different starting points and paces.
\t\t\tOn timetables for submissions, JAPAN and others proposed February \t\t\t2008, while CHILE and others preferred a pre-Bali deadline.
Spain, for the EU, suggested MRV of: how much support is provided; the purpose of support; channels through which the support is provided; and types of support such as grants or loans.
The EU later expressed regret at not being in a position to deliver a communication because three new members joined the EU in January 1995.
The EU supported existing arrangements accrediting three NGO constituencies.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, expressed a willingness to work based on the non-paper, but noted that there were issues missing from it.
Canada and the US, opposed by Pakistan and India, said this section should be considered at a later stage.
On areas for synergies, INDIA suggested the Adaptation Fund and GCF support implementation of contingency plans.
The EU identified the need for parties to increase their mitigation commitments periodically.
CHINA suggested a new subsidiary body under the COP for technology transfer, elaborated on the proposal for a multilateral technology acquisition fund (MTAF), and emphasized performance and effectiveness indicators.
The EU suggested a new paragraph on characteristics of national inventories that makes reference to monitoring of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 (JI) and 17 (emissions trading).
ETHIOPIA, opposed by many countries, but supported by UGANDA, proposed that this quota should apply to countries that had fewer than ten projects in the first commitment period.
On technology, FRANCE underscored the need for convergence on issues including the establishment of a technology mechanism, a technology committee and CTCNs.
IRAN said only a group of Parties could trigger a case of another Party 92s compliance.
VENEZUELA and IRAN suggested including historic responsibility for concentration of greenhouse gases.
MEXICO elaborated on their proposal that parties participating in REDD+ establish a national registry to account for verified emission reductions and carbon stock units, and inform a UNFCCC REDD+ registry to prevent double counting.
Tuvalu, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), said the discussion on sinks in the CDM must maintain the social, environmental and economic integrity of the mechanism.
The EU said that the SCCF should support mainstreaming adaptation activities.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, noted that it was crucial that intersessional work delivers formal negotiating text by the start of COP 24.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA noted that the logo in plenary refers only to “COP 15” and said it should also refer to COP/MOP 5.
NICARAGUA, with BOLIVIA, ECUADOR and VENEZUELA, said the Fund should have full juridical personality and legal capacity.
Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored achieving the objectives of the BAP and fulfilling legal obligations, without excuses or conditionalities.
Switzerland, for the EIG, noted the need for advance work in 2018 on substance.
The LEG said that it is willing to \t\t\twork with non-LDCs to use methodologies developed for the LDC NAPAs, \t\t\tof which 21 have been completed, with the majority of the rest \t\t\texpected before COP 13.
1, the AOSIS protocol and the German proposals.
ZAMBIA drew attention to the small number of African staff members in the Secretariat’s mechanisms support programme, in comparison to other regions.
The US, supported by the EU, cautioned against excluding specific fields of expertise and called for the possibility to draw on expertise of other bodies such as the SBSTA and the SBI.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, stressed the needs to clearly define climate finance as funds aimed entirely at addressing climate change and as being new and additional to official development assistance.
GHANA called for a comprehensive adaptation approach and bridging research and policy.
The G-77/CHINA introduced a proposal to address the “finance gap,” including accurate accounting of the provision of finance.
The US, CANADA \t\tand AUSTRALIA emphasized coordination among national focal points.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the existing frequency of national communications submission should be maintained, but with the possible introduction of a mid-term update on mitigation and GHG inventories.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, underscored the group’s  commitment to goodwill and expressed concern over the repeated use of the refrain “the world has changed.” Asking developed countries to take the lead, CHINA underlined that an ambitious Paris outcome should give equal weight to all of the Durban mandate components.
ARMENIA reported that its GHG inventory preparation was guided by relying on 2016 guidelines and prioritizing national inventories and data.
AUSTRALIA, the US, BHUTAN and BOLIVIA highlighted the importance of AIJ, while DENMARK said AIJ must not be a loophole for subsidizing energy exports to developing countries nor a “sorry excuse” for postponing actions needed in developed countries.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested including follow-up to the TAR as a standing item on the SBSTA agenda.
The EU drew comparisons to the non-compliance procedures under the Montreal Protocol, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION characterized the non-compliance procedures as “extremely complicated.”
The EU and the US highlighted convergence on the role and importance of technology, cooperative action and anchoring institutions.
CHILE said a national low-emissions development strategy is being developed through a government-led, multistakeholder, participative process and presented a list of NAMAs under development, including in the transport, forestry, transportation and waste sectors.
GRENADA said the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C indicates that parties should focus on the long-term pathway to 2030.
 SAUDI ARABIA said that all delegations realize that the rules of procedure have not been adopted and that there is an official request to grant equal representation.
SWITZERLAND said the proposed would threaten credibility.
The Netherlands, the UK and Mexico supported analyzing development levels, with the Netherlands suggesting the wording “between and within developing countries” and Mexico proposing paying attention to the least developed countries.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed support for the COP Presidency.
The text proposed by the EU and G-77/CHINA on Terms of Reference for a workshop on P&amp;Ms was not adopted.
KYRGYZSTAN noted that glaciers are projected to decrease by half by 2050 and called for sufficient attention to the problems of the Himalayan region.
KYRGYZSTAN said financing for mountainous countries should be included in the text.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, Algeria, for the African Group, Cuba, Egypt, Indonesia, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, India and others, opposed by the US and the EU, called for establishing a spin-off group on finance.
Delegates accepted an offer by ARGENTINA to host COP-4 and subsidiary body meetings, 2-13 November 1998, in Buenos Aires.
On the impacts of response measures, SOUTH AFRICA said his country 92s aim was to maintain its coal-driven low cost energy sector and energy exports.
SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA said paragraphs on background information and on future methodological work should be bracketed until the completion of IPCC TAR discussions.
Participants debated how to take into consideration accounting, reporting and review aspects when developing these, as proposed by the G-77/CHINA.
The EU, with the US, preferred taking one decision on both.
 c2 a0The US said the text needed further consideration and that, because of ongoing negotiations under the ADP, the US would not be “in a position to adopt the decision text.”
SAUDI ARABIA, GAMBIA, COLOMBIA, IRAN and INDIA opposed any consideration of voluntary commitments at COP-4.
Regarding legal entities, the EU identified convergence on the involvement of other entities and added that Parties should be responsible for them.
Chile, for AILAC, supported by the US, stated that, while the facilitated groups may advance at different speeds, they shared the common purpose of making the Geneva text more workable.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, CANADA and CHILE emphasized a country-driven approach.
Germany, supported by Chile, Canada, and the UK, requested language that explains that keeping within the remaining carbon budget requires net negative CO2 emissions.
The EU, Lesotho, for the LDCs, the Russian Federation, the Philippines, Singapore, Ethiopia, for the African Union, Algeria, for the African Group, Japan and many other developed and developing countries also supported the Copenhagen Accord, with several parties noting that it was a compromise document.
Egypt questioned how the case studies would be selected and, supported by the US, called for parallel emphasis on the local, regional, national and global scales.
On post-commitment review, the US and the EU expressed concern about the 38-month timeline identified by the Secretariat for review under the Protocol.
The UK called for adding to the agenda an update on the appointment of the IPCC Secretary.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the importance of Protocol Article 2.3, which addresses the adverse effects of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms.
The EU urged a roadmap from Bali leading to a \t\tglobal comprehensive post-2012 agreement in 2009, and called for a work \t\tprogramme linked to the \t\tAWG and the review of the Kyoto Protocol under \t\tArticle 9.
BOLIVIA and GUATEMALA reported that some parties agreed on a list of concepts for possible inclusion in the preamble.
CHINA said the panels should provide support to developing countries and requested that this be reflected in the text.
Belize, for AOSIS, called for technical papers for consideration at SBSTA 33, on the means and costs of limiting global temperature increase to under 1.5°C, and on the costs of failure to reach this goal.
SOUTH AFRICA said that the goal should be based on sound science, balance mitigation and adaptation, and introduce effective means of implementation and sustainable development.
The EU, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, NORWAY and CHILE agreed, but said the approach is not yet mature and the definition in the Co-Chairs 92 text will suffice for the time being.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported addressing the issue, with the EU stressing the need to decide what happens to CDM projects in EU members that are non-Annex I parties.
SWITZERLAND and the WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (WMO) highlighted the NWP’s input to the Global Framework for Climate Services.
MOROCCO stressed the need to certify that reduced or avoided emissions are real, measurable and contribute to sustainable development in the host country.
AUSTRALIA said MRV should be regular and transparent and include information on targets, reductions, methodologies, the use of offsets and the provision or receipt of technical, financial and capacity building support.
Japan then announced that it would make an additional US$100,000 contribution to the Voluntary Fund for the participation of the least developed countries at COP-1.
CANADA, with the EU and US, opposed text inviting the SBI to provide guidance to the financial mechanism in relation to decision 5/CP.5 (research and systematic observation) and 5/CP.7 (adverse effects).
CANADA highlighted the need to consider \t\tpolicies that attract private sector investment and a representative \t\tspeaking for several BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY NGOs (BINGOS) called for \t\tdiverse and flexible policy options and clarity on how the \t\tUNFCCC \t\tprocess will move forward.
Jim Skea, UK and WGIII Co-Chair, focused on the importance of clear communication with policymakers, noting that each WG now has a communications specialist to ensure that outputs are better communicated.
BRAZIL highlighted the time required to build effective MRV systems at the national level.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that their Prime Minister had participated in the negotiations, together with the US, UK, Russian Federation, Mexico, the Maldives, Algeria, India, the Republic of Korea, Lesotho, China, Brazil, Sweden, Spain, Ethiopia and other developed and developing country parties as well as UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
MALAYSIA, EGYPT and others expressed disappointment at the \t\tlack of progress on technology transfer.
NORWAY and MEXICO suggested promoting compliance for legally-binding obligations, and facilitating implementation of other provisions.
HUNGARY said the timing of reviews should not be linked to the unratified Kyoto Protocol.
AOSIS, with Algeria, urged other Annex I parties to follow Norway’s lead in making pledges that are closer to what the science requires, and Thailand called for increased levels of ambition.
URUGUAY and BANGLADESH highlighted the usefulness of regional cooperation, and AUSTRALIA called for national efforts in climate observing systems.
The EU proposed that the appeals body develop a code of conduct on impartiality and independence.
On the Convention principles, the Umbrella Group, the EU and Colombia expressed the view that Convention principles should be seen in an “evolving context,” noting the need to discuss further the principle of equity in terms of fairness and reflecting changing realities.
Many countries, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested learning from the SED on the 2013-2015 review.
The US said its Congress was considering a request for US$50 million for the GEF for various climate change activities, to be included in the 2010 budget.
AOSIS underlined the importance of developed country mitigation in line with science and in a legally-binding form.
On the paragraph addressing implementation of technology needs and needs assessment, the EU noted that differences of opinion remained over the timing for SBSTA 92s consideration on this matter, and on whether a fixed date should be set.
The G-77/ CHINA noted that the preparation of national communications is a continuous process, but that the frequency of submissions is a "non-issue."
CHINA expressed “deep concern” that emissions have increased in many developed countries during the period, requesting that the COP consider these concerns.
BRAZIL introduced the Amazon Fund as an example of a simple and transparent approach that enables environmental integrity and national autonomy to support activities according to national priorities.
AUSTRALIA suggested national climate change capacity-building plans for articulating countries e2 80 99 needs.
INDIA opposed discussions of developing countries\' emission reductions.
BRAZIL stressed the importance of coordination and coherence, explaining that the financing board would provide a structure focusing on the “big picture” and the adequacy of what is being done in different places.
 The Russian Federation stated that the AOSIS proposal lacks significant scientific basis.
CHINA called for revisiting Annex I QELROs and inviting Annex I parties not participating in the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol to undertake comparable targets.
The US called for deleting all references to “factoring out” in Volume 4 and in the Overview Chapter.
The US supported analysis and assessment, but said the stakes are too high and risks too great to seek refuge in scientific uncertainty.
 \t\tThe REPUBLIC OF KOREA identified reduction potential and \t\tcosts as the deciding factors in determining targets and suggested \t\tpresentations from relevant international institutions such as Asia \t\tPacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted problems in receiving financial and technical support for non-Annex I national communications.
Patrick Szell (UK) is continuing work in a contact group.
 \t\t\tOn CO2 emissions by sector, the US proposed to either include \t\t\tcontributions from land-use change, or specify that emissions listed \t\t\twere only energy related.
CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, said action under workstream 2 will be the foundation for the post-2020 agreement.
CHINA said joint developed-developing country R&amp;D projects should result in shared IPRs.
NEW ZEALAND suggested using actual emissions as a starting point for calculating quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs) as a means of eliminating surplus AAUs.
Lamenting that his suggestion to hold item 4 in abeyance had not been proposed to parties, CHINA sought clarification on the definition of the “Presidency” and whether the COP President has unlimited power to designate anyone to preside over the ADP.
On adaptation, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, highlighted the importance of considering the process for LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and concluding the work programme on loss and damage.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by CHINA, encouraged the AWG-LCA Chair to prepare a revised text.
MALDIVES described itself as a “front line” State for climate change and the MARSHALL ISLANDS drew attention to regional studies on sea level rises that correlate closely with SAR findings.
BRAZIL called for exchanging views on the full scope of issues, as they are interrelated, but warned against preconditioning results of discussions on each of the blocks.
The EU expressed concern that technical negotiations are lagging behind high-level political discussions.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said SBSTA should not focus on specific features and that the use of scientific data is a basic question for the experts.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, underscored the need for a three-year work programme on agriculture to include international cooperation on research and development of climate resilient agricultural systems and disseminate research outcomes and technology outputs.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and a regional approach to GHG reduction.
The PHILIPPINES appreciated the report\'s acknowledgment that developing countries are going to suffer from the adverse effects of climate change.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the conference has resulted in enough to allow parties to proceed with trust, hope and expectation of more progress in South Africa in 2011.
JAPAN \t\tsaid market mechanisms should be accompanied by other sets of actions \t\tand urged linking national caps to national energy efficiency levels.
The US said work on the Synthesis Report should not be initiated until after the completion of expert reviews of the Working Group reports, including the incorporation of comments into the reports.
BRAZIL and INDIA supported capping carryover of AAUs.
SWEDEN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BELGIUM, and opposed by OMAN and NIGERIA, called for a dialogue on developing country commitments.
The EU stressed that changing the rules on key issues at the beginning of the first commitment period would upset the carbon market.
Opposed by the EU, the G-77/CHINA suggested removing reference to Article 4.2 throughout the draft decision, noting that this was judgmental.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested work leading to a technical synthesis and a summary for policy makers to inform ministerials.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 notes cumulative receipts of US$407.9 million into the Adaptation Fund Trust Fund;
 \t\t\tAustralia, speaking for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the \t\t\tAdaptation Fund, the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments, and \t\t\tthe AWG discussions.
AUSTRALIA and ICELAND questioned the implications of mid-term reviews on legal commitments and the impact on emissions trading systems.
The total budget for these CRNs is expected to be in the range of US$8 9611 million.
CANADA said the reports would be the factual basis that determined the need for further steps.
BOLIVIA supported discussion of REDD as a sectoral approach.
CHINA and INDIA opposed phrases such as “willing to do so.”
In response to a query from ETHIOPIA on the fate of previous submissions to the roster, the Chair noted that the compilation was an ongoing process.
Following informal consultations, the draft decision on guidance to the LDC Fund was agreed with minor additions.
France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland, Canada and the US objected.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for improving the TEMs e2 80 99 planning and follow-up.
He suggested that, in developing modalities, all parties need to take into account, inter alia: flexibility; capacity-building needs; and, with BRAZIL, interlinkages with other relevant Paris Agreement articles.
PERU asked whether the second compilation will be ready by the tentative date.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the need for parallel \t\trather than sequential approaches.
After some debate, the Chair invited the EU, the US and the G-77/China to discuss the issue informally.
  China and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed satisfaction with the GEF’s fifth replenishment and called on contributing countries to expedite payments and for the GEF to streamline its project preparation and approval process.
The US proposed merging paragraphs on Annex I commitments based on the CO2 equivalence of their emission contributions to the atmospheric stock of greenhouse gases and on the exception of sources and sinks for which there is insufficient knowledge of the GWP or inability to accurately measure emissions or removals.
He pointed out that the approved budget for 1996-1997 included a contribution of US$620,000 for work that requested from the IPCC and hence the "ball was in the court" of the Convention\'s bodies.
  On this issue (FCCC/KP/CMP/2005/2), JAPAN opposed Saudi Arabia’s proposed amendment entailing legally-binding consequences for non-compliance.
SAUDI ARABIA called for reference to impacts of response measures throughout the text and adding reference to economic vulnerability when vulnerability is mentioned.
SAUDI ARABIA supported South \t\tAfrica 92s building blocks approach and highlighted the importance of \t\tfinancing and the need for technology transfer.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern about progress, saying all agenda items need to advance equally, and called for draft texts that encompass all elements of the Paris Agreement work programme.
NEW ZEALAND opposed articulating a shared vision for each of the building blocks, noting that the shared vision should encapsulate “what we want to achieve.” He observed that the review should be conducted thoroughly and periodically.
 The US, supported by the EU, the Netherlands, Japan, Canada and Australia, said it was concerned about the form and nature of the simplification, who would simplify the guidelines, how transparency would be maintained, and what revising the guidelines might cost.
In response to questions regarding using market mechanisms, LIECHTENSTEIN said the focus is pre-2020 targets and that, as an Annex B country, it is able to use the Protocol e2 80 99s flexibility mechanisms.
 Lech Kacyński, President of Poland, underscored the need to alleviate poverty and address climate change, and highlighted the EU’s leading role in combating climate change as one of the best expressions of solidarity.
On  , the EU, supported by Norway, highlighted the level of ambition as the core of the discussions.
INDIA stated that legal “bindingness does not only come from a protocol,” explaining that the Berlin Mandate, Marrakesh Accords and the Bali Action Plan have all been decisions and parties have felt bound by them.
SAUDI ARABIA pointed out that the Convention provides parties the flexibility to decide where, how and in which sectors to reduce emissions.
JAPAN, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed this proposal, however the co-chairs said it would go forward to the COP in this form.
The US responded that banking and borrowing is inconsistent with their inventory approach.
The US, with the \t\tNetherlands, called for a reference to sectors and, on SBSTA 92s work, she \t\tproposed to use language along the lines that SBSTA 93will explore 94 the \t\tactions identified in the programme of work, instead of using other \t\tverbs such as 93promote, 94 93improve 94 or 93collect.
Recalling previous instances where Parties have "agreed to disagree," the US objected stating that Parties were not obliged to forward the penultimate text.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by China, for the LMDCs, called for a comprehensive approach addressing all building blocks of pre-2020 action, following three permanent and parallel tracks: accelerated implementation process; technical expert process; and high-level engagement.
 ASEAN and the US held their first Leaders’ Meeting on 15 November 2009, in Singapore, also addressing climate change and energy.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested working towards agreement on outstanding issues and, where there is no agreement, to consider transferring issues to other Convention bodies.
KUWAIT opposed negative lists.
SWITZERLAND suggested spin-off groups to “deepen certain details.”
The EU had concerns about the possibility of creating a \t\t 93perverse incentive 94 by crediting this fuel switching via \t\tacknowledgement of avoided deforestation.
 \t\tAOSIS stressed that any post-2012 framework must build on the UNFCCC and \t\tthe Kyoto Protocol, and the EU emphasized the UNFCCC as the global \t\tframework for addressing climate change, including adaptation and \t\tmitigation.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, observed that whether the SBI has the competency to deal with procedural issues under the COP is a legal issue that is ambiguous.
Benjamin Zaitchik, Office of Global Change, Bureau of Oceans, Environment and Science, US, called for making better use of available information and identified the need to: reorganize science around scientific-societal issues; strengthen stakeholder participation in research; and move towards a flexible, comprehensive, integrated and cross-cutting scientific approach.
NEW ZEALAND noted that work under the AWG-KP should be kept in mind, and supported, inter alia: collapsing the section on comparability of mitigation by developed countries, and not negotiating a long list of criteria; and a broad and efficient carbon market.
The US explained that work in Durban was “painstakingly negotiated” and, supported by AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, MEXICO and AOSIS, opposed the proposal to establish a spin-off group.
The EU and \t\tBelarus supported further consideration of the proposal.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and KUWAIT called for equity and fair burden sharing.
CANADA \t\tstressed the Board 92s 93strategic oversight 94 role and the pressing need \t\tfor a package of CDM-strengthening measures.
AUSTRALIA, with SWITZERLAND and the EU, suggested that they are not ready to support option B in the second commitment period.
On funding sources, the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and others stressed the need to consider the report by the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Funding.
GERMANY highlighted the Petersburg Climate Dialogue convened jointly by Germany and Mexico in early May, aimed at discussing a way forward for UNFCCC negotiations in the run-up to Cancún.
SBSTA Chair Konaté proposed that parties hold the new items in abeyance while consulting on whether to include them on the agenda, allowing work on other agenda items to proceed, as proposed by the African Group and AOSIS.
The US raised questions about the relationship between Article 4 (joint fulfillment of commitments) and Articles 5, 7 and 8, the mechanisms and the compliance regime.
The LDC Expert Group highlighted its training and support programmes for LDCs in the preparation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
The EU identified several guiding principles, including mainstreaming of climate change into development processes, providing a catalytic function, and building on existing GEF arrangements.
Mexico, for the EIG, regretted the time wasted on adopting agendas; welcomed progress on the participation of observer organizations; called for avoiding overlapping agenda items; and expressed concern that the lengthy debate on loss and damage “reinterprets and overstretches” “clear” Cancun Agreements.
SOUTH AFRICA outlined two procedural scenarios: to continue refining options until agreement on the whole range of issues in Copenhagen; or considering the mandate problem and which issues may be addressed in the negotiations.
The EU wondered if the recommendations on the high-level segment showed proper respect for and trust in the host country.
CANADA supported the comprehensive approach in assessing capacity development needs.
TUVALU urged parties not to rewrite the existing rules and principles, noting it may be necessary to reconsider IPCC guidelines on managed and unmanaged land.
Guatemala, for AILAC, said the preamble should include a reference to gender and supported a quantified or quantifiable unilateral component in “features” under the mitigation article.
The PHILIPPINES noted the lack of observation data in developing countries and proposed a workshop to help fill this gap.
AOSIS called for greater interaction between ministers.
The EU expressed satisfaction with the number of Annex I Parties using the new reporting format.
CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and ALGERIA stressed the AWG-KP’s mandate and the need to limit discussions to Annex I countries.
JAPAN suggested establishing task forces on the building blocks with the participation of external experts.
AUSTRALIA, the US, and the EU opposed this, with the EU saying that the proposal was substantive while the APA conclusions are procedural.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, he said another report could address the effects of various emissions limitation proposals, including the AOSIS draft protocol, assessing the technical feasibility and range of cost for each proposal.
Naoko Ishii, CEO, GEF, announced donors have pledged more than US$50 million to the Capacity-building Initiative for Transparency (CBIT), and implementation projects will begin in Costa Rica, Kenya and South Africa.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 requests the GEF to enhance communication with its implementing agencies and to encourage its implementing agencies to enhance their communication with countries to facilitate a timely implementation of other elements of the LDC work programme including NAPAs.
SWITZERLAND suggested adding specific proposals, including the consideration of due process issues related to the CDM Executive Board.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA subsequently withdrew the proposal regarding the timing of the high-level segment.
The US identified the need to discuss similar issues together and stressed the importance of “seeing the full picture” when considering MRV.
AWG-LCA 10 opened on Tuesday, 1 June with Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe (Zimbabwe) continuing as the AWG-LCA Chair, Daniel Reifsnyder (US) as the AWG-LCA Vice-Chair, and Teodora Obradovic-Grncarovska (Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) as the Rapporteur.
JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND called for taking into consideration the political guidance given in Copenhagen.
VENEZUELA voiced objection to proposals seeking to “market the atmosphere,” which he said amounted to “who pays may pollute.”
On institutional arrangements, the ARAB GROUP, with CHINA, called for deletion of reference to sub-national, national and regional emissions trading schemes.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, CANADA, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and MAURITIUS supported a menu approach to provide flexibility for countries with differing economic positions and national contexts.
The LDCs called for full support of the LDC work programme, including contribution by developed countries of US$ 2 billion to the LDC Fund.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, supported holding the workshop.
Canada highlighted, inter alia: decoupling growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and emissions; plans to take a sector-by-sector regulatory approach, aligned with the US where appropriate; and important investments in carbon capture and storage (CCS).
BASIC called for clarity on the relationship between the 2015 agreement and INDCs.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a consistent approach in the work of the Subsidiary Bodies in order to make meaningful progress on related agenda items such as adaptation, technology, MRV, national communications for both developed and developing countries, and the financial mechanism.
The EIG noted different circumstances require different instruments and sources.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged Annex I parties to commit themselves to scaled-up emission reduction objectives in line with science and the reports of the IPCC.
 The EU requested more time to determine whether proposals from individual EU countries could be deleted via incorporation into the EU’s new proposals.
On modalities, MALAYSIA underscored the need to understand the issues before proceeding to drafting.
TUVALU questioned whether “we are reflecting what the atmosphere sees or creating incentives for industry.”
BOLIVIA underscored the need to increase the level of ambition through clear political will.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the ministers should review the progress and assist in moving forward.
MEXICO noted the need to consider innovative means of financing.
COLOMBIA highlighted differentiation of countries in terms of vulnerability as a cross-cutting issue, and proposed that it be based on an ecosystem-based approach.
AUSTRALIA said all the scientific evidence indicates that actions by Annex I countries alone would be insufficient.
GERMANY said progress had been made to resolve these issues, and a report will be presented at COP-6.
The US, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, said capacity building should be integrated throughout relevant chapters.
He noted many areas of concern and said the G-77/CHINA needed time to develop its position.
 FRANCE proposed differentiating the commitments of Annex I Parties according to present emission levels of greenhouse gases per inhabitant and per GDP.
TUVALU noted that, according to the mandate, the group should discuss not only actions beyond 2012, but also now and up to 2012.
CHINA stressed decisions of placement depend on agreement under all elements considered by the ADP.
He reiterated that the US intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement at the earliest opportunity absent the identification of more favorable terms for the “American people.”
CANADA proposed \t\taddressing sectoral case studies.
The US, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand called for reflecting on the wisdom of this mode of communication and proposed Chair Pachauri speak again informally to the UNFCCC Executive Secretary on this matter.
The US noted that he had seen numbers that range widely and that it was not in parties’ collective interest to use numbers at the extreme edge of a range.
On a draft decision on submission of national communications, the G-77/CHINA suggested text stating that submissions shall be dependent on the availability of funding.
The EIG, with Colombia, underscored that a Durban package requires agreement on the legal form of the AWG-LCA’s outcome.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, CANADA and others, noted the need for general guidance on data submission requirements to realize consistency among countries.
AOSIS, the LDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP supported adding text that reflects Annex I emission reductions of at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020, and AOSIS suggested also reflecting the long-term perspective.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed that there is no relation between the potential AAU surplus from the first commitment period and the level of ambition in the post-2012 period.
In addition, the decision provides for the establishment of an LDC fund.
 \t\t\tThe US \t\t\toutlined its climate change technology programme, which focuses on \t\t\ttechnology research (especially CCS), tax incentives, appliance \t\t\tefficiency standards, fuel economy standards, and renewables such as \t\t\tsecond-generation biofuels from cellulostic technologies.
The EU underlined that after 2020 countries in a position to do so should join in increasing financial flows to countries in need and expressed concern that the mechanism to raise ambition over time had been significantly weakened.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed classifying impacts in a way that leads to action, i.e.
The EU said the UNFCCC should play a catalytic role.
The EU, NORWAY and AOSIS raised concerns over environmental integrity and opposed proposals that would exempt projects from the requirement of additionality.
Calling for raising mitigation ambition for 2020, CHINA asked why the EU has made its 30% emission reduction contribution conditional on comparable commitments by other developed countries and on e2 80 9cadequate e2 80 9d contributions by advanced developing countries.
AUSTRALIA suggested to focus on the most vulnerable countries.
On the nature of future activities, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, opposed by the EU, proposed reference to "future work" rather than "consultative process."
INDIA proposed that the GCF allocate funds to meet the full costs of developing country access to environmentally sound technologies.
The EU noted that its future national systems would fulfill quality and time requirements, and expressed concern about the continuous increase in GHG emissions since 1990.
Regarding information gaps on adverse effects, the MARSHALL ISLANDS called for more robust research on policies and measures in Annex I countries.
JAPAN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and ZAMBIA, highlighted the need for cooperation with the AWG-LCA, saying that “it does not make sense” to discuss the collective emission reduction range for Annex I Protocol parties under the AWG-KP, and the range for all Annex I parties under the AWG-LCA.
The EU, with the US, New Zealand, Norway, Australia and Canada, opposed using the input document, saying many of its elements, namely those other than mitigation and the TEP, are outside the mandate of workstream 2.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said that the text to be prepared by the Chair contains all elements that will allow for a smooth transition to a second commitment period and successful conclusion of the AWG-KP in Doha.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for the adoption of an agreement that is applicable to all, includes a flexible approach to differentiation, and has common rules and a mechanism to increase ambition over time.
However, JAPAN noted methodological problems in this category and NEW ZEALAND said the issue of subtraction depends on resolving other issues.
The EU stressed the need for clear definitions of terms and for work on the eligibility of additional activities between now and COP-6.
  In the morning’s contact group, Facilitator La Viña proposed three drafting groups on safeguards, focusing on: stakeholder participation, led by Paraguay and Australia; environmental safeguards, led by Indonesia and Canada; and governance, led by the EU and Guyana.
NEW ZEALAND stressed multiple channels for public finance in addition to the GCF.
On purposes, the EU asked what review process would be established.
The G-77/China and AOSIS advocated the creation of a committee to appraise, provide technical support and advice, and approve technical aspects of adaptation projects based on COP guidelines.
The US, supported by POLAND, said it would be better to use exact IPCC wording because the SAR is a negotiated text.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported extending and expanding the LEG’s mandate, highlighting that 45 countries have submitted NAPAs.
On Parties 92 submissions, the EU and AUSTRALIA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND and TUVALU, suggested inviting submissions on issues relating to LULUCF, other than on factoring out.
The EU identified the need to ensure the Protocol’s environmental integrity and also consider the issue in a broader context.
INDONESIA, with HAITI, urged viewing the global stocktake as an opportunity to help increase adaptation ambition.
Parties then proceeded to discuss four proposals on institutional arrangements from the G-77/China, the Republic of Korea, the EU, and a joint proposal by the US, Japan and Canada.
The LDCs expressed dissatisfaction with implementation of the LDC work programme, stressing that funding should not be restricted to NAPAs.
South Africa, for BASIC, highlighted unresolved issues, including equity, IPRs and unilateral trade measures.
The US argued against imposing CDM-type requirements just to ensure parity with JI.
Barbados, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), stressed that “comfort and political accommodation should not drive the major players.” Algeria, for the African Group, expressed concern with the lack of translation of documents and the multiplicity of contact groups and sub-groups.
On paragraph 9, the UMBRELLA GROUP opposed, calling for targeted roundtables on several items, and stressed the need to reach agreement at APA 1-4 that the outputs will feed into discussions at the next session.
TANZANIA identified the need for African DOEs and CAMBODIA suggested simplifying requirements for LDCs.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others supported an amendment on privileges and immunities, and TUVALU proposed an amendment related to extending the share of proceeds.
SWITZERLAND said timing of COP-6 should result from progress on pending issues and highlighted the need for a work-plan.
The US, Canada and Japan supported a decision on Article 3.3 (afforestation, reforestation, deforestation) and 3.4 as a package, arguing that this is critical to the success of the Protocol.
The G-77/CHINA proposed two workshops be held in 2002, and that the terms of reference be reviewed at COP-8, to which delegates agreed.
VENEZUELA recommended defining the legal nature once objectives were quantified.
 The OPEC countries are actively lobbying for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure on the composition of the Bureau.
 The US noted that Rule 30 in A/AC.237/L.22/Rev.1, on meetings of the COP and the subsidiary bodies, had a footnote allowing accredited observers to participate in "private" meetings.
On adaptation (Article 4), Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked to include details on a long-term vision and urged avoiding prescriptive language.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted commonalities across proposals, such as the financial mechanism under Convention Article 11 (Financial Mechanism) serving as the financial mechanism of the new agreement.
The G-77/CHINA suggested that text proposed by parties or groups should be retained in its original form.
CANADA opposed discussion of issues relating to the Registry, noting that these are being discussed under the SBI.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for in-depth \t\tconsideration of indicative ranges of emission reductions, including the \t\tcontribution of Annex I parties.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted the possible perverse outcomes associated with altering GWPs.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, with China, Cuba, South Africa, Egypt, India, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, proposed that a contact group consider how to follow up on the high-level roundtable that took place at SB 40.
BRAZIL opposed discussion of amendments to Article 21 (entry into force).
BRAZIL suggested a long-term goal based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, historical responsibility and the best available science.
On rights of nature and the integrity of ecosystems, BOLIVIA called for a space to discuss the impacts of climate change on ecosystems.
The US highlighted the need for new aims, including a common menu of action, review of national communications by the SBSTA and strengthening the process of negotiations through the SBI to anchor the post-2000 era.
CHINA said developed countries should use their economic recovery from recession as an opportunity to transition to low-carbon pathways.
On a sentence stating that the RCPs include a mitigation scenario leading to a very low forcing level (RCP2.6), two stabilization scenarios (RCP4.5 and RCP6.0), and a scenario with very high GHG emissions (RCP8.5), Canada, supported by Finland, Saint Lucia and the UK, proposed simplifying language by referring to e2 80 9ca stringent mitigation scenario e2 80 9d and e2 80 9ctwo intermediate scenarios.
 On international bunker fuels, the US recommended unadjusted inventories but said supplemental data could include averaging over some period in order to estimate progress towards targets.
Mexico, for the EIG, expressed commitment to avoid a gap between commitment periods, while highlighting links between the two negotiating tracks.
The US also cautioned against including too many details and cited a number of examples illustrating the difficulties of proposed P&amp;Ms related to specific products.
On REDD+, the AFRICAN GROUP, AUSTRALIA and others welcomed progress on this issue.
On the way forward after SB-12, the G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS, cautioned against using a "fast track", highlighting that he did not consider it to be part of the BAPA.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed the need for clarity on the way procedures are followed to ensure transparency and strengthen decision-making.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the COP/MOP’s authority over the Fund and direct access to resources.
COLOMBIA proposed that the consolidated paragraphs and the guiding table be merged into a single document.
ALGERIA suggested that e2 80 9cadequate and predictable funding for adaptation e2 80 9d also be e2 80 9cadditional.
The US proposed scheduling future meetings so that they end on Thursday, while SAUDI ARABIA observed that ending on Wednesday would serve the interests of more parties.
The PHILIPPINES said the G-77/China\'s understanding of balance seems to be at odds with the other groups.
SAUDI ARABIA underscored the importance of including text on adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
On emissions from international aviation and maritime transport, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and QATAR supported deletion of the section, with SAUDI ARABIA stating that Protocol Article 2.2 (aviation and marine bunker fuels) would have to be amended before discussion on this issue could take place.
PERU and BRAZIL said the credibility of Annex I Parties and the principle of equity are in danger.
SWITZERLAND stressed SBSTA 92s \t\trole in identifying available methodologies.
On producing a list of speakers, AUSTRIA and BELGIUM said experts must be clear about the capacity in which they are speaking.
ZAMBIA suggested that progress has been made since Poznań and should be reflected in the outcome of this session.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that mixed resources are the best approach and that the state’s role is vital for financing for adaptation.
Noting the absence of some major emitting countries under the Protocol, the EU suggested a joint session on pledges and targets with the AWG-LCA.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA and GUYANA stressed that political discussions on REDD should be left to the AWG-LCA and that the SBSTA should consider capacity building and methodological issues.
AUSTRALIA called for submissions.
JAPAN said it was essential not to lose the incentives for appropriate sink activities.
The EU said the starting point of discussions should be logical consequences of maintaining environmental integrity, in line with the overall objective of the Convention.
94 The EU argued, that such wording \t\twould allow the Fund to bring added value to whatever is already being \t\tundertaken elsewhere, whereas the G-77/China said this wording was \t\tinconsistent with decision 5/CP.7 (implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 \t\tand 4.9).
The EU called for submissions on the necessary mitigation and adaptation elements in the 2015 agreement.
Connie Hedegaard, EU Commissioner for Climate Action, on a new comprehensive globally binding agreement, said that the EU was ready to take a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA, with the EU, highlighted the need for demand-driven financing.
AUSTRALIA identified support for two possible legal outcomes, including a possible continuation of the Protocol, while stressing the need for a legally-binding outcome under the AWG-LCA.
The EU suggested additional engagement with the private sector and civil society.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, proposed fixing the date at this session.
On identification of compliance-related elements and gaps, the US, with CANADA and the EU, indicated the need to differentiate elements from gaps and proposed three categories to identify them: substantive rules; procedures for addressing compliance; and consequences of non-compliance.
BOLIVIA requested bracketing all of them, saying parties had not had time to analyze them and also noting concerns about issues related to code of conduct and conflict of interest.
The UK also \t\tsuggested taking into account already existing information.
The EU, Japan, Australia and other developed countries preferred a single eight-year commitment period with flexibility on reference years.
The EU mentioned linking entry into force of new commitments to ratifications covering a certain proportion of emissions.
As a compromise, the UK, supported by Germany Denmark, WG II TSU, Norway and others, proposed a separate topic on risks and vulnerabilities before Topics 3 (responses) and 4 (systemic transformation and changes in systems).
In response to Ghana 92s proposal, UGANDA and CANADA said these elements provide operational guidance and should not be included in the draft conclusions.
With the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, she said that in the case of the CDM, non-Annex I Parties should not be affected by the fact that an Annex I Party is not eligible.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, recalled that according to the BM, the early stage of the AGBM process includes analysis and assessment but also includes negotiations in parallel.
 INDIA said SBSTA should not base its recommendations solely on the SAR and suggested the IPCC examine the effects of climate change in non-Annex I countries caused by extraterritorial activities and natural climate variability in greater detail.
ARGENTINA, for Algeria, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, reiterated that all ADP work is under the Convention and must adhere to the Convention principles, and said universality of application is not uniformity of application.
 The EU identified considerations for selecting an appropriate host for the CTC, including: their interpretation of the CTC functions; an organizational management structure; demonstration of expertise and knowledge; involvement with the private sector; and cost estimates.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by AILAC, opposed, stressing the long-term temperature goal should be in the agreement.
Canada, with the US and Japan, emphasized that the Copenhagen workshop on P&amp;Ms fulfilled relevant BAPA requirements.
With AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, the US said the overall compliance procedure should be considered before the expedited procedure.
BURUNDI underscored the need for improved access to technological information and knowledge and capacity building, especially for African delegates participating in the climate change process.
The US highlighted the role of adaptation communications in maintaining the high profile for adaptation achieved in the Paris Agreement and proposed using adaptation communications as “high-level summaries” of lessons learned.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for an omnibus decision that will include all items related to the Paris Agreement.
Under discussion was \t\treference to SIDS in the objective of the programme of work, economic \t\tdiversification, and reference to the Arctic, along with LDCs and SIDS, \t\tas particularly vulnerable regions.
Norway, supported by Australia and the EU, but opposed by Brazil, China, India and Kenya, suggested common accounting rules for all parties.
On the focus of future discussions, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, said the group’s mandate was to focus on minimizing adverse impacts, while CANADA said positive effects needed equal treatment and NEW ZEALAND observed that the group’s mandate was sufficiently broad to accommodate both negative and positive effects.
On the definition of "forest," AOSIS supported the biome approach.
CHINA amended his proposal to request communication from “six months” to “well in advance” of COP-3.
Regarding the headline statement, the US asked to refer to limits to “adaptive capacity” rather than “adaptation.” Saint Kitts and Nevis said that reference to “associated losses” was needed, given that “limits to adaptation and associated losses” had been deleted from a subsequent paragraph.
Speaking for AOSIS on matters relating to the mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol, Jamaica stressed the need to generate greater confidence in the CDM, including identifying how net mitigation can be built into the mechanism.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, preferred deferring discussions until clarity had been achieved on the other building blocks.
On effective participation in the UNFCCC \t\tprocess, the EU and JAPAN presented views on options listed by the \t\tSecretariat to promote participation by NGOs and indigenous peoples.
ZAMBIA said climate change programmes should be linked to poverty eradication.
SINGAPORE suggested a bottom-up approach in which developing countries take on voluntary commitments in line with their national circumstances.
SINGAPORE reiterated that the UNFCCC is not the appropriate forum for addressing trade issues.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, noted, inter alia, that risk reduction and management should: have a special window in the financial mechanism; address both extreme and slow onset events; and include both risk reduction and insurance components.
On accounting for wetlands, BELARUS noted an upcoming IPCC workshop on wetlands that will report to the SBSTA.
INDIA, with AOSIS, suggested widening the scope to include an assessment of adequacy of mitigation efforts by Annex I countries in accordance with the latest available scientific literature, and PAKISTAN suggested that the paper should analyze whether these numbers are consistent with a 2ºC scenario.
CHINA, supported by JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, said Parties, not the EB, could determine criteria to determine contribution to sustainable development.
Kenya, for the AFRICA GROUP, pressed for simplified CDM \t\tmodalities and urgent action on technology transfer and adaptation.
The EU preferred a general, rather than a detailed, debate.
GEORGIA stressed that monitoring of GHGs needed enhancement.
On the importance of transparency, ECUADOR called for adopting an MRV mechanism as part of the 2015 agreement.
On Appendix B,  he WMO and EU queried the implication of the IPCC Trust Fund being administered under International Public Sector Accounting Standards.
ROMANIA, speaking for the Group of Eastern European countries, and supported by the US, said JI and CDM have distinct roles and should not be treated in the same way.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA cited \t\tthe Russian proposal.
AOSIS proposed an additional paragraph on assessing the implementation of the TEMs and making recommendations on increasing their effectiveness at COP 23.
TUVALU said voluntary emissions trading schemes in non-Annex I parties were not relevant to the Protocol.
The UK called for the identification of the additional elements of water stress arising from climate change.
BRAZIL warned that references to the IPCC could lead to politicization.
 \t\t\tRegarding the \t\t\tUN headquarters agreement, host country GERMANY discussed the new UN \t\t\tcampus in Bonn.
Canada, Colombia and the US supported Chair Thorgeirsson 92s suggestion that such reporting activities be undertaken at the national level instead.
SWITZERLAND and CHILE also favored a protocol.
BOLIVIA and TUVALU welcomed the participation of indigenous peoples.
The EU proposed reducing Annex I emissions by 30% by 2020 and 60-80% by 2050.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for completing the terms of reference (ToR) for the PCCB and for the review of the WIM in Marrakech.
NEW ZEALAND lamented the inconsistency in arguing for a narrow mandate in terms of defining what is or is not a consequential amendment.
CHINA identified four pillars of comparability, namely: comprehensiveness; nature of commitments; proximity; and compliance.
The US and Japan stated that the key elements of the arrangements were already agreed on; the GCF has independent juridical authority operating under the guidance of the COP, and is therefore capable of drafting the arrangements.
Norway, Germany, Venezuela, China and Chile suggested another attempt at consensus, while Peru, the US, Australia, the UK and Saudi Arabia expressed regret at the loss of the information in the box, but supported its deletion.
The US called for a comprehensive and strategic approach.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted a new, comprehensive agreement as the main objective of the ADP’s work and warned against using the agenda as a tool to review the “fragile and multifaceted” balance of interests agreed in Durban.
The EU urged that identification of needs and priorities should be country-driven and region-specific, and should identify priorities for both mitigation and adaptation.
VENEZUELA proposed that parties discuss the Chair’s paper in their regional groups and provide feedback to the drafting group facilitators in order to reach a consensual party-driven list.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, suggested workshops on issues where parties’ views diverge and Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stated that these issues of divergence include the Convention principles, whether to prioritize mitigation or adaptation and means of implementation.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that the "sink" in Annex I countries would create an entitlement to emit, and called for appropriate carbon accounting approaches.
Portugal, for the European \t\tUnion (EU), restated that global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions should \t\tbe reduced by 50% by 2050 to ensure that the average temperature \t\tincrease is no more than 2 b0C above pre-industrial levels.
With Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and Barbados, for AOSIS, he requested that the Secretariat compile information on developed country pledges.
Regarding TAP-M, the EU supported economic assessments.
The LDCs recommended inserting a caveat for LDCs and small island developing states on the inclusion of mitigation in INDCs.
The US, referring to the summary of the Chair’s opening statement, recalled that the Chair had noted the “potential” link between the work of the AG13 and the AGBM.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged balance between the two tracks.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested omitting the Section, but if retained, then reflecting the objective in one to two paragraphs.
CHILE proposed support for three stages of the NAMA process: developing NAMAs; capacity building for realizing NAMAs; and reporting and assessing realized NAMAs.
INDONESIA said the scope of the compliance committee should include mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
These include India’s International Solar Alliance involving more than 120 countries and the private investor-led US$2 billion Breakthrough Energy Coalition.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, supported by the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored that response measures are well addressed in the context of mitigation and elsewhere in the text, and should not be included in the chapter on adaptation.
The PHILIPPINES, for 36 developing countries, highlighted the Convention’s principles, including common but differentiated responsibilities and equity.
Stressing the urgency of climate change, Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the Dialogue to focus on identifying effective strategies, solutions, and untapped opportunities to enable ambitious climate actions, including means of implementation.
Angola, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), suggested references to IPCC reports and party inputs, and the need for deep emission cuts.
The US, supported by Australia, Japan, the EU, Norway, Colombia and Costa Rica, proposed also creating a separate sub-group to consider proposals relating to common elements of mitigation by all parties.
JAPAN outlined its proposal, which includes reducing global emissions by at least 50% from current levels by 2050, provisions for developed country commitments, developing country action and financial and technological cooperation.
Tonga, for AOSIS, highlighted three elements: impacts of severe weather events; risk management; and rehabilitation associated with slow onset events.
On  , the US, supported by the EU and Australia, noted that the text does not contain actions that all parties can take to address adaptation.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said that guidance on features and accounting should be concise, bottom-up, and non-prescriptive, and that NDCs are “full scope.” Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern over bifurcation and scope, as well as the “degree of legal bindingness” reflected in the text.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for creating an accessible and simple NDC registry, and Mali, for the African Group, underlined the need to clarify its objective, function and nature.
The EU called for the initiation of a process for the voluntary review of national communications.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted, inter alia, effects on food production and competitiveness and noted that the outcome of the WTO Doha Round could have significant effects on climate change issues.
NIGERIA noted the need for immediate action, and called for an ambitious emissions reduction target, negotiated in a flexible manner in an effort to reach a compromise.
AOSIS proposed an economic report on climate impacts on SIDS and, with the LDCs, an adaptation fund under the Convention.
Reporting from the spin-off on joint implementation, BRAZIL presented two draft paragraphs on the preparation, communication and implementation of INDCs by parties, and on arrangements for INDCs.
CHINA, among others, called for the CMA to determine cycles after 2030.
The G-77/CHINA opposed the US proposal saying that the group will not undermine well-established UN practices on equitable geographical distribution and rotation principles.
The US, supported by Canada, Australia, and the EU, stressed the need for clarity on the basis for work before entering into discussions.
She supported “quick, substantial and high-impact financing to assist the most vulnerable developing countries,” particularly LDCs and SIDS.
The US opposed the referencing of equity and the CBDR principle.
The US called for acknowledging that all countries face adaptation challenges.
 Co-Facilitator Andrew Rakestraw (US) called for views on next steps following APA 1-3.
The EU reminded parties of their responsibility to deliver an ambitious Paris agreement applicable to all and acceptable by all.
The EU said the expert review team (ERT) should use relevant information to "substantiate" rather than "verify" information provided by Annex I Parties.
AUSTRALIA called for a transparency system that is e2 80 9cfit for purpose e2 80 9d in the new agreement, and stressed the basic building blocks of such a system should be agreed in Paris, while elaborating more detailed modalities later.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested a new paragraph be included in the negotiating text.
BRAZIL questioned how non-CO2 emissions from wetlands will be considered.
TUVALU called for a political link between LULUCF rules and commitment levels.
 URUGUAY said measures must be incumbent on Parties beyond their contamination threshold.
The US, supported by the EU, opposed singling out the phrase from the Berlin Mandate that specifies no new commitments for developing countries, in the conclusions.
The LDCs suggested that half of adaptation finance be allocated to SIDS and LDCs.
During the initial discussion on shared vision, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, supported by the US, suggested incorporating elements of a shared vision into a political statement.
SICA emphasized including all elements of the ADP mandate in the INDCs.
Final wording of a redrafted text, as amended by SOUTH AFRICA and the US, removes all reference to a protocol and asks the COP to decide that the AGBM may, in its consideration of a MCP, seek such advice as may be deemed necessary from AG-13.
AUSTRALIA, supported by GERMANY, called for examining the need for formal procedures.
The EU noted that different functions require centralized or decentralized institutional mechanisms.
Discussion: In the ensuing discussion, the PHILIPPINES said the burden of proof in terms of documentation of impacts is shifting from Annex I to non-Annex I countries.
DENMARK lamented the lack of a sense of urgency over the last nine days, and called for ambitious action from all and for clarity of efforts.
AUSTRALIA undertook to provide a written proposal regarding omitted text.
 \t\t\tPakistan, for the G-77/China, believed that a constructive \t\t\tfoundation had been laid in Bonn for Bali.
Many parties, including the EU, South Africa, for the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/CHINA, and the Republic of Korea, for the EIG, suggested the ADP Co-Chairs produce a concise, coherent text with clear options to enable effective negotiations.
The US enquired how such an institution would coordinate all capacity-building activities globally, and recalled a previous discussion on MRV of support had indicated difficulties in measuring capacity-building support.
BRAZIL drew attention to non-permanence under the CDM, in particular to issues such as liability for reversibility, consideration of buffers and insurance and its implications.
URUGUAY urged ambitious mitigation commitments to minimize increased adaptation costs and supported concrete forms of financing, such as strengthening the Adaptation Fund.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Lesotho, for the LDCs, Sweden, for the EU, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and Uganda, for the LDC Expert Group, welcomed progress at SBI 31, but noted the importance of issues postponed to later sessions.
 \t\tRegarding COP 11 92s organization of work, the US emphasized the need for \t\ta clear separation between Convention and Protocol-related issues.
Australia, Poland, the US, the EU and other Annex I Parties expressed reservations on a paragraph inviting Annex I Parties to provide information on, inter alia, existing market imperfections and subsidies in the energy sector.
AOSIS suggested 19 members, with three from each UN regional grouping, two from SIDS and two from LDCs.
The UK suggested considering how the Rome and Cairo recommendations could be implemented, and underscored the need for a strong and ongoing feedback mechanism for tools and methods.
On a new paragraph noting the need for a more coordinated research approach to address cross-cutting issues, India, Malaysia and China, opposed by the EU, Russian Federation, Norway and Switzerland, proposed deleting reference to the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations.
The US said it was important to follow precedent in the election of officers to the Bureau and include the SIDS nominee.
BRAZIL proposed considering expanding workstream 2 beyond 2020, either as part of the 2015 agreement or as a separate track.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group (EIG), supported grouping together paragraphs on transparency and reporting.
Some signs of that transition were about, as ministers announced new funding to the GCF, Adaptation Fund, or LDC Fund.
A number of Annex I Parties raised concerns about the proposal, with the US and SWITZERLAND noting similar discussions taking place in the CGE group, and the EU suggesting that the groups might be combined at some point.
On uncertainties, CANADA, the EU and URUGUAY supported the provisions laid out in the Marrakesh Accords.
AUSTRALIA noted that they had increased their pledge and wondered if other parties had processes for reviewing their pledges because some “had been on the table a long time.” IRAN highlighted the gap between pledges and aggregate emission reductions needed from Annex I parties to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations.
INDIA said countries should use their own methodologies to measure emissions from forest degradation until agreement on a common methodology is reached.
On policies and measures, the EU and ARGENTINA worked on crafting a compromise based on the second option on the careful design of policies and measures.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned that this process should not preclude submissions at a later stage.
The EU and others supported the GCOS call for more systematic reporting.
AOSIS called for prioritizing the review of the WIM, the third review of the Adaptation Fund, and the “redesign” or review of the modalities and procedures for the CDM.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, encouraged more non-Annex I countries to submit their Biennial Update Reports (BURs) and said strengthening national institutions’ GHG inventories should be the PCCB’s priority in 2017.
The AFRICAN GROUP urged greater predictability of financial resources.
New Zealand observed the structure of the section could be clarified, and noted, with the EU, the link between the sections on time frames and mitigation.
US said that it would be more useful to describe specific analytical inputs.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, suggested the objective of the decision should be recommending ways to enhance the TEP, and offered initial ideas, such as using existing institutional structures and creating a process to assess the TEMs.
NEW ZEALAND suggested moving the paragraphs on the duration of the agreement to the section on entry into force.
Opposing new features, a number of groups of parties stressed the importance of reflecting differentiation in features such as ambition and progression, referencing Agreement Article 3, with one group urging flexibility for LDCs and SIDS.
BARBADOS highlighted support from SIDS, Africa, LDCs and countries in Latin America and the Caribbean for the technical paper.
CHINA recalled the performance of Annex I Parties in meeting existing commitments and warned the EU: “beware of your bubble.”
NEW ZEALAND suggested, inter alia, adopting a new annex as well as amendments on inscription of commitments, privileges and immunities, flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of stakeholder participation.
The EU said that addressing the principle of CBDR “in a contemporary and dynamic manner” is an essential component and suggested its inclusion.
The US identified the areas of convergence as being those that recognize, inter alia, private sector participation in the CDM and the need for baselines to precede use of the mechanisms.
VIET NAM announced that its national MRV system would be operational before 2020.
He requested the group to allow the Co-Chairs to conclude this and only show the outcome to representatives of the G-77/China, the EU, the US, Saudi Arabia and any interested Parties before presenting it to the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies.
GRENADA supported a new protocol, and acknowledged the varying interpretations of Decision 1/CP.17.
China, for the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, highlighted the need to define the scope of NDCs and reflect differentiation in the operational guidance as cross-cutting issues.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, further expressed concern with references to “those in a position to do so.”
MALDIVES suggested that specific recommendations on the issues raised in the renewable energy TEMs be incorporated into the summary for policymakers.
The EU and others highlighted the need for an expert review and consideration of non-Annex I communications and said all countries could benefit from this exercise.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the importance of strengthening market mechanisms to complement public funding, and supported creation of new mechanisms that expand the global signal on carbon price.
AOSIS stressed SIDS 92 vulnerability and underscored the need to develop long-term approaches to adaptation in the Convention 92s context.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored that “there is no ambition without commitments” and stressed that work on ambition under the ADP does not substitute commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and negotiations on mitigation under the AWG-LCA.
The EU, Norway, Switzerland, China and AOSIS, opposed by the US, Japan and India, supported a sub-paragraph proposed by the Russian Federation referencing research priorities in support of the ultimate objective of the UNFCCC.
 The Secretariat said that the timing of funding is important and that the US and the G-77/China gave the same message.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted direct linkages between the AWG-KP and other UNFCCC processes, particularly the AWG-LCA, Article 9 Review, LULUCF and maritime and aviation emissions.
SAUDI ARABIA and AUSTRALIA expressed disappointment that agreement was not reached.
CHINA, supported by EGYPT, stated CBDR is a basic principle of international climate change negotiations and should apply to international aviation and shipping.
COSTA RICA suggested text on a centralized registry using blockchain technology.
 MOROCCO stated that Annex I Parties should also be required to report on capacity building mechanisms and encouraged a paragraph by paragraph review of the document.
On key considerations for 2011, the EU highlighted the need for discussions on: ambition; comparability; and the importance of accounting for assessing whether parties are on track.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to consider linkages between the AWGs and achieve an ambitious and comprehensive legally-binding agreement.
The US suggested various possibilities to address the problem on this occasion, including having a Region III representative already serving on the Bureau serve in another capacity, or having an additional member represent the region but not be part of the Bureau.
While agreeing that it is not necessary to launch negotiations on the Dialogue’s design, the EU and Australia stressed that parties must leave COP 23 with clarity on its conduct.
The EU expressed hope that Parties would agree to request more than just an information paper.
PERU, the Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted the time lost last week and supported continued discussion of Annex I emission reductions.
The US said that the text posed problems, which were “neither final nor finished” and expressed willingness to work on specifics, noting that the relevant decisions would have “enormous value.” Figueres Olsen said that she would convey the general message to the COP President on the need for: quick clarity on the way forward; effective use of time; and an inclusive and transparent process.
Australia, Brazil, New Zealand, Japan, China, Singapore, India, Saudi Arabia, AOSIS and several others opposed both multiplication and discount factors.
TUVALU proposed allowing non-parties into informal consultations on REDD-plus, and AWG-LCA Chair Zammit Cutajar responded that negotiations are carried out by parties, and NGOs would be briefed on progress.
ZIMBABWE urged SBSTA to request the IPCC to conduct awareness programmes through workshops at regional levels.
  During this session, panelists reflected on: the United Arab Emirates e2 80 99 renewable energy strategies; a Brazilian technology that produces sugar ethanol that is seven times less polluting than traditional ethanol; the role of a long-term policy framework, including a US$130/ton carbon tax and an electricity certificate scheme in Sweden in increasing the renewable energy share to over 50%; and the increasingly strong business case for renewable energy investment.
Regarding the purpose of technology needs and needs assessment, the PHILIPPINES sought clarification on how these would contribute to the implementation of Article 4.5.
INDIA, BHUTAN, BANGLADESH and KIRIBATI highlighted the importance of obtaining GEF financing for national communications.
SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern with proposals that would require contribution by developing countries.
Regarding the sub-item on submission of second and third national communications, the G-77/CHINA objected to the reference to the "frequency of" submissions, and, with SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the importance of financial and technical support for preparing national communications before addressing the issue of their timing.
With TUVALU, she lamented a weakening of language on a mechanism to address loss and damage.
AUSTRALIA highlighted that NAMAs should fit with the country’s broader low-emission development strategy.
AOSIS called for including loss and damage.
RUSSIA called for a well-defined legal interpretation of compliance.
Canada, Australia, the UK and South Africa called use of the term e2 80 9csecular e2 80 9d inappropriate in this context, and Ireland suggested replacing the term with e2 80 9cunexpected, e2 80 9d which was accepted.
Along with KENYA, SAUDI ARABIA and the SUDAN, they also stressed the importance of ensuring the GCF’s accountability to the COP.
CHILE supported inclusion of sinks within the CDM.
BRAZIL added it should set out legal obligations with details to be clarified in other sections.
BOTSWANA said introducing crediting would confuse the process.
Mali, for the African Group, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted the urgency of textual negotiations.
The US, the EU, Australia, Canada and New Zealand objected to this proposal because there are many categories of special needs countries, besides AOSIS (which has had a seat on the INC Bureau), and opening the Bureau to one will require opening it to the others.
CHINA stressed the need for more financial resources and said that activities should not be confined to information exchange and training, but should provide technical and financial support.
JAPAN stressed the need for a fair and effective international framework where all major emitters participate.
 : During the SBI closing plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, noted that the final report of the GEF was still awaited, to allow full consideration of the agenda item, which is closely related to the provision of financial resources.
Noting that agenda items on these issues have been taken up by SBI and SBSTA over several years, SAUDI ARABIA expressed disappointment that discussions remain procedural and have not yet become more substantive.
Noting problems regarding differences in interpretation, MOLDOVA, supported by FINLAND, CUBA, the NETHERLANDS, CZECH REPUBLIC and others, said the Synthesis Report must be short and concise.
CANADA suggested all parties adapt to the adverse effects of climate change, recognizing “its global and transnational effects.” SWITZERLAND emphasized the need to share best practices.
Several LDCs noted that the CGE did not have a mandate to address the LDC NAPA process.
SRI LANKA \t\tsuggested that the interpretation of Rule 20 as understood by plenary, \t\tbeing that individuals must be nominated by the government of their own \t\tcountries, should be recorded.
CHINA, INDONESIA and IRAN highlighted the need to convene intersessional meetings to strengthen intergovernmental work.
SPAIN highlighted the importance of the EFDB.
TUVALU raised concern over recommending the IPCC Good Practice Guidance (GPG) without having had time for its full consideration.
Several parties observed the need to recognize the special circumstances of small island developing states (SIDS) and least developed countries (LDCs), with Saudi Arabia noting that this is already in the Convention.
Drawing attention to the multiple values of forests, BOLIVIA supported the development of new alternative mechanisms, considering forests and non-commodities, and forests and living systems.
Expressing deep concern over the omission of important elements and lack of progress on response measures and finance issues under the SBI and SBSTA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said he would not accept a “skewed, incomplete package” as the basis for negotiations in the second week.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, emphasized the importance of adopting the GPG to advance the implementation of the UNFCCC, and the EU noted that delaying adoption of the GPG will prevent preparation of inventory submissions due in 2006.
On the CDM, COSTA RICA, BOLIVIA and SENEGAL, opposed by IRELAND and AUSTRIA, favored including sinks in the CDM.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS suggested that the “binary division” between countries under the AWG-KP could be replaced by a number of lists with a more differentiated middle ground, from which countries could “graduate” to more stringent requirements.
During the final contact group meeting, delegates \t\t\tapproved the core programme budget of US$54,031,584 representing a \t\t\t0.99% increase.
Canada, the EU and Japan expressed the view that this issue did not require a separate process, as it was considered under other relevant agenda items.
AOSIS stressed the need to retain the 1990 base year and percent-based QELROs so that they are comparable to the first commitment period.
Cuba, for ALBA, said the Technology Framework should lead to an “action framework” and that cooperative approaches cannot be used to avoid obligations to provide finance.
The G-77/CHINA proposed additional amendments to the Chair 92s text that stress the need for: capacity building to contribute to sustainable development; partnership with, and assistance from, developed countries; and proper guidance from intergovernmental organizations, such as the GEF, UNDP, and World Bank, to ensure that access to resources is transparent, with clear and less cumbersome procedures.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, the EU and NORWAY highlighted the futility of lengthy mandate discussions.
On paragraphs 17-22 (post-communication and support for INDCs), many parties, including CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL, opposed consideration of post-communication and support for INDCs at this stage.
JAPAN and SLOVENIA called for the early signing and ratification of the Protocol.
GRENADA suggested that work be prioritized once the agenda has been adopted.
The EU identified the need for an enhanced international framework based on countries’ needs.
 \t\t\t SOUTH AFRICA \t\t\tobserved that under certain conditions, it appeared that a large \t\t\tamount of the CDM fee-based income would actually be generated from \t\t\tdeveloping countries, and asked whether developing countries would \t\t\tin effect be funding a significant amount of the expanded \t\t\tSecretariat budget.
The EU \t\t\tpreferred the text to form part of a COP or COP/MOP decision, \t\t\thowever, Chair Dovland suggested that the EU text would be more \t\t\tappropriate as an SBI conclusion.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested that all questions should go automatically to the facilitation branch.
AOSIS also suggested discussing QELROs to close the mitigation ambition gap in the Bangkok session.
The US noted that in-depth reviews form an essential part of the process, and urged the SBSTA and the SBI to undertake this topic as a matter of urgency.
The US, supported by Tanzania, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia, suggested combining the two proposals into a one referring to the IPCC exploring ways to provide enhanced technical and administrative support, including access to scientific literature, particularly to developing country CLAs and LAs, in recognition of the increasing burden of a comprehensive assessment.
The US urged a strengthening of national and international mechanisms for the review of information on implementation.
JAPAN and NORWAY expressed preference for a period of 8 years, while noting that this view was not fixed.
However, the EU preferred a membership that is balanced between net contributors and net recipients.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by THAILAND, SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN, COLOMBIA, MALAYSIA, NICARAGUA, HONDURAS, SYRIA, GHANA, TOGO, LAOS, KUWAIT, GRENADA, BOTSWANA, BAHRAIN, MALI, CHILE, PERU, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, NIGERIA, BANGLADESH, KENYA, MOROCCO, ZIMBABWE, INDONESIA, URUGUAY, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA, GAMBIA, ARGENTINA, and SOUTH AFRICA on behalf of Southern African Development Community (SADC), said equity and common but differentiated responsibility are keys to success.
BOLIVIA, with VENEZUELA, opposed this, calling the proposal an “underhanded” way to include new market mechanisms on the agenda, under the guise of a research item.
CANADA said the new agreement should offer flexibility for countries to take actions e2 80 9cbest suited e2 80 9d to their domestic circumstances.
The US and Australia opposed amending the conclusions.
The Statement highlights domestic action in achieving Protocol commitments; notes the need for the CDM to be a credible and viable mechanism; stresses the need for special capacity-building initiatives in the least developed states and small island developing states (SIDS); underscores the importance of vulnerability assessment and adaptation for AOSIS members; and resolves to work together to coordinate donor activities and domestic priorities to more effectively address SIDS 92 capacity building and adaptation needs.
NORWAY urged furthering the non-paper by gathering the inputs listed in Decision 1/CP.21, clarifying that, in her view, “sources” is related more to who will deliver, rather than information.
AUSTRALIA suggested the compliance system focus on both Articles 3.1 and 4.1 (joint fulfillment).
MALAYSIA said the reference could be made without a recommendation on how it would be addressed.
INDIA stressed that ICA should be less onerous than IAR.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need for economic diversification as “fossil fuel will be one of the victims of climate change” and emphasized that response measures are an integral part of the Convention and of any new agreement.
ARGENTINA, INDIA, IRAN and KUWAIT supported the G-77/China proposal.
e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND and NORWAY proposed adding e2 80 9cwithout prejudice to e2 80 9d the e2 80 9cstructure e2 80 9d or e2 80 9ccontent e2 80 9d of the final outcome.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, underscored emerging consensus on a balanced package, comprising, inter alia, an: effective and predictable finance mechanism; an adaptation mechanism; and a delicate balance in mitigation between commitments and voluntary actions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment over parties’ inability to agree on how to communicate the 2013-2015 review outcome.
NIGERIA sought elaboration of the EU position on the question of enforcement and, in particular, on the nature of consequences and how they relate to Article 18 (non-compliance).
CROATIA said parties should have different base years, but for the sake of comparability a 1990 reference year could be set.
Following concerns raised by TUVALU, supported by ECUADOR, SWITZERLAND and others, he clarified that the non-paper is not a negotiating text.
Brazil and AOSIS opposed inclusion of reference to decision 1/CMP.2 and the roundtable, which Kuwait, Qatar, Norway and others supported.
Responding to a US request for clarification on contradictions in P&amp;Ms, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, noted GHG-intensive energy subsidies and taxes, and commitments to reduce petroleum use alongside increasing domestic production.
 NORWAY emphasized his understanding that voluntary meetings of REDD+ experts will not continue automatically if negotiations are not concluded at SBI 48.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the importance to the Group of Article 4.8 and 4.9, and expressed concern that the issue of financial resources is bracketed.
The EU highlighted progress achieved through constructive technical discussions at this session on, inter alia, principles for the Technology Framework, agriculture and Article 6, with an outcome reflecting a delicate balance that involved concessions by all parties.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed support for the President using appropriate approaches to find a solution that is acceptable to all parties and noted that the time factor “should not be used as a pretext to digress from the objective of achieving consensus.”
The EU said a workshop co-organized by the CCD and CBD on identifying and promoting synergies through forest and forest ecosystems would be held in March 2004, in Viterbo, Italy.
Cambodia and others proposed simplifying the CDM procedures for LDCs.
Noting that Georgia had become a member of the EIG on Friday, 17 November, Mexico, for the EIG, said the “Bula and Talanoa approaches” had helped move work forward but noted that, in some areas of negotiations, progress lags behind the goals parties set themselves.
 \t\tRegarding regional scale projections on cyclones, participants \t\t\tapproved a suggestion by the US to add the phrasing “in some \t\t\tregions” in referencing an apparent trend in the proportion of very \t\t\tintense cyclones since the 1970s.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America (ALBA), called for balanced progress on all elements of the BAP to enable adoption of a legally-binding instrument in Cancun that will strengthen and supplement the Kyoto Protocol.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported submissions on the GST and compliance.
The AFRICAN GROUP clarified his proposal is for accountability and transparency purposes, and not intended to dictate other initiatives.
NIGERIA and ZIMBABWE expressed concern about an approach that might divide the needs of LDCs and other developing countries, and supported considering the needs of all developing countries together.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, underscored the importance of short- and long-term action and commitment to successfully completing the Paris Agreement rulebook in 2018.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed adding the agenda item on a forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and a modified agenda item on national adaptation plans (item 8) to the list of items on which work would commence pending consultations on the outstanding items.
The EU, supported by NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others, reiterated the importance of fixing LULUCF rules before agreement on further commitments.
Co-Chair David Warrilow (UK) explained that the group ef bf bds aim was to prepare draft SBSTA conclusions and a draft COP-8 decision, focusing on how the IPCC TAR can help the SBSTA and other UNFCCC bodies in their work.
The US expressed concern regarding the number of actions tasked to the Secretariat, noting the budgetary implications.
CHINA, TAJIKISTAN, EGYPT and SUDAN supported a greater focus on the needs of developing countries in terms of observing systems, and BURUNDI, KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the importance of early warning systems.
SWITZERLAND said his country supports the ability to leave force majeure events out of accounting, and clarified that they should be defined as single large events that are outside the control of parties.
NORWAY underscored \t\tcarbon capture and storage, bunker fuels and solar energy.
IRAN, with GERMANY, BELGIUM and AUSTRALIA, called for in-depth consideration of the issue.
In describing the development of 93with measures 94 scenarios, she noted that P&amp;Ms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are driven by the requirements for EU integration.
SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern that measures to facilitate a prompt start to the CDM would be financed from voluntary funds.
SAUDI ARABIA reported that the pre-2020 milestone spin-off group was not able to draft compromise text.
 \t\t\tOn the confidence level, China, opposed by Germany, Austria, \t\t\tSwitzerland, the US, Belgium, Canada and Spain, said the information \t\t\tthe 445-535 ppm stabilization scenario did not support a “much \t\t\tevidence” confidence statement on language stating that the \t\t\testimated costs of mitigation are between a 3% decrease of GDP and a \t\t\tsmall increase.
BRAZIL expressed concern regarding the unilateral treatment of emissions in specific regional systems and identified the need to further consider the economic impacts of market-based measures.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and framework for implementation.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the IPCC should concentrate on advising government on climatic change.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported intersessional workshops and the LDCs identified areas for technical workshops.
BRAZIL said one developed country statement had implied "if you don\'t deliver, we won\'t deliver," to which he replied "until you deliver, we don\'t discuss."
These items were first taken up on 2 December in the COP plenary, then referred to joint SBSTA/SBI informal consultations to discuss paragraphs 41, 42, and 45 of decision 1/CP.21, as mandated to Adaptation Committee and the LDC Expert Group (LEG).
MALAYSIA requested the SBSTA to work with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) or the International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) on wood products and queried how to take anthropogenic forest fires into account in national reporting.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Norway, the EU, Japan and Switzerland called for time-bound, binding mitigation commitments by all parties.
 The UK observed that some delegations have drawn attention to scientific uncertainty, but warned against underestimating what is already known.
The EU underlined the importance of adequate and secure resources, and proposed that the COP consider the adoption of the Euro as the currency for future budgets.
AUSTRALIA highlighted its suggested distinction between degradation and deforestation.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the lack of capacity in developing countries to assess how measures taken by developed countries impact them.
NEW ZEALAND emphasized the principles of universality and longevity.
The US, with Canada, Australia and New Zealand, suggested that where members from one branch participate in the work of the other, it be on a non-voting basis.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION favored a zero growth budget, but would accept budget increases for inflation, and requested clear indication of how its contribution to the budget would be affected by its ratification of the Protocol.
KIRIBATI called for the inclusion of an expert on fisheries.
She said financing must come from multiple sources and, with the EU and others, urged scaling up of support.
CAMBODIA urged for mechanisms that benefit LDCs.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, and New Zealand said the focus should be on a long-term global goal.
CHINA said procedural equality does not necessarily lead to substantive equality, calling for “better management.”
IRAN and the DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA lamented access “being withheld on political grounds.” Several delegates noted consultations underway on related issues, asking for clarification on the sequence for adopting the draft guidance.
 MALAYSIA said it is hard to see the need for differentiation between countries.
SAUDI ARABIA said the workshop should also address 93wrong practices.
Bangladesh called for patented technology to be made freely available to LDCs and SIDS.
The PHILIPPINES and SWITZERLAND stressed ensuring that national experiences inform the framework for financing the full implementation of results-based actions in line with REDD+ safeguards.
In total, the costs were approximately US$15.16 million.
The G-77/CHINA said funding should come from implementation of Annex I countries’ commitments.
Spain, for the EU, proposed extending the invitation to intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.
URUGUAY called for the establishment of a drafting group on sectoral approaches in the agriculture sector.
NORWAY and MEXICO noted that their proposals on financing arrangements should be reflected in full.
The US said this matter should be decided by ministers, and the entirely bracketed texts were forwarded to the SBI.
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRALIA, ARGENTINA, the US, the EU, BAHAMAS, CHILE and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, sought to retain the phrase 93complete its work, 94 as Parties had a responsibility to achieve the objectives of the BAPA and it would be difficult to justify a less ambitious goal.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, and the PHILIPPINES supported the Polish amendment.
Debate concerned procedural issues on how to address the texts, with the G-77/CHINA indicating reluctance to consider a compilation text prepared by the Co-Chairs.
The US proposed accounting for exports and imports separately, and Tuvalu noted the need to account for wood products harvested in developing countries and transferred to developed countries.
The G-77/CHINA said the proposal required further clarification.
CHINA, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, suggested a 2017 APA agenda item on Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53 (financial resources provided to developing countries).
On expedited procedures, JAPAN said it would submit a proposal on the procedure for reinstalling mechanisms 92 eligibility.
AUSTRALIA saw adaptation communications as a vehicle for disseminating information on implementation progress, gaps, challenges and lessons learned, while cautioning against duplicating work under other Convention bodies.
Responding to a \t\tquestion by GERMANY on incentives for renewable energy, Mathur \t\temphasized technology adaptation to user needs.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need for a complete consolidated text for full discussion.
MALAWI said commitments should be translated into concrete actions including technology transfer and poverty alleviation.
The UK \t\tunderscored continuity with past emission scenarios, in order not to \t\tundermine the work upon which the AR4 is based.
The US said experiences in the past ten years have shown that markets have enabled more cost-effective emission reductions and that the CDM has stimulated clean investment, stressing that the proposals could make an important contribution to the Convention’s objective.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed: that loss and damage be included in the agreement separately from adaptation; clarifying the relationship between the agreement and COP decisions; and considering headings and subheadings.
The EU called for, inter alia: a pragmatic and comprehensive approach to maximize participation and inputs; and an interactive process in which substantive discussions may generate the need for ad hoc technical expert group meetings.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed changing the title of the third contact group to “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements.” After informal consultations, parties agreed to the establishment of three contact groups on: “enhancing action on adaptation and associated means of implementation,” chaired by AWG-LCA Vice-Chair Cutajar; “enhancing action on mitigation and associated means of implementation,” chaired by AWG-LCA Chair Machado; and “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements,” also chaired by Machado.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that some areas of the Bali Action Plan have not been thoroughly addressed and that the mechanisms established for adaptation and other issues are not yet operational.
JAPAN emphasized applicability to all parties, and a durable, flexible and dynamic structure.
Supported by Chile, for AILAC, and Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the G-77/CHINA called for discussing linkages to support.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, said the documents are the principal source to assess progress.
 INDIA noted that national communications are not just part of a process, but are a basis for sustainable development.
The US bracketed a request to the Secretariat to organize a workshop and report its results to COP-7.
In addition, the additional work under the NWP would amount to about US$2 million.
CHINA called for capitalizing the GCF and for the Standing Committee to start its work as soon as possible.
CANADA, supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, proposed establishing a joint SBSTA/SBI contact group to allow for full deliberation of the Review.
With AUSTRIA, CANADA and BARBADOS, he requested more time for consultations.
NEPAL supported integrating climate change actions into sustainable development strategies.
Raising a point of order, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by GUATEMALA and GRENADA, requested suspending the SBSTA.
The EU, G-77/CHINA, SAMOA and SWITZERLAND supported the use of "shall."
In the last meeting of the contact group, the US expressed concern with consideration of GTPs, and objected to not being included in the “Friends of the Chair” meeting, given issues of coherence between the Convention and Protocol.
Concerning the inclusion of CDM sink credits under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, Runge-Metzger highlighted liability issues and concerns over the potentially large amount of LULUCF credits.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over proposals reaching beyond the AWG-KP’s legal mandate based on Protocol Article 3.9 (further commitments).
On objectives and scope of capacity building, CANADA and the US questioned reference to supporting new institutions.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance for the UNFCCC and the IPCC to align assessment report cycles with global stocktakes.
Co-Chair Slade, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said he would hold consultations with Parties on Wednesday.
No progress was made on Rule 4 (no sessions during sacred religious holidays) or on Rule 42 (voting procedures), which affects the fate of the AOSIS draft protocol.
SUDAN supported comprehensive vulnerability assessments.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed the importance of enhancing the Secretariat’s resources given pre-2020 work and preparations for the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
MAURITIUS supported voluntary agreements for the elaboration of mechanisms of P&amp;Ms and asked whether taxes and emissions permits would apply to Annex I countries only.
On the SCCF\'s guiding principles, the G-77/China said that the Fund should be complementary to the GEF climate focal areas, the Least Developed Country (LDC) Fund, and bilateral and multilateral funding, and maximize adaptation funding opportunities for non-Annex I Parties not eligible for support from the LDC Fund.
The US called for making clear links between the SPM and \t\t\tthe underlying chapters, emphasizing the need for traceability of \t\t\tstatements in the SPM.
All agreed that calling for submissions, \t\tincluding from accredited observers as proposed by the EU, should be the \t\tfirst step forward.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), called for a work programme that is applicable to all, balanced, and comprehensive.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that setting a goal for governments’ efforts “needs to be substantiated by proven science,” provided by the IPCC.
She said a political outcome was inadequate and that AOSIS would “have to consider our options” if a legally-binding outcome is not achieved.
A confidence level was cited (medium) following inputs from the US and Switzerland.
The EU urged careful consideration of this matter, and said that implementation of Article 4.6 must not undermine the integrity of the Protocol.
The consolidation of paragraphs 38, 23 and 21.5 was not agreed upon, as BOLIVIA opposed, emphasizing the need to keep paragraph 38 separate as it relates to the Warsaw Framework for REDD+.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and UZBEKISTAN said that capacity building was necessary to take full advantage of the CDM.
The G-77/CHINA called for developed countries and Annex II parties to provide finance in line with developing country needs, with references to Convention Article 4 and CBDR.
While welcoming the UN Secretary-General’s initiative, CHINA emphasized that decisions must be taken by the COP.
Colombia, for AILAC, said discussions on process should remain in plenary.
The US and SINGAPORE welcomed the adoption of the CORSIA and the IMO’s amendment of the MARPOL Convention on fuel consumption by ships, with SINGAPORE stressing the need to develop long-term measures.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 encourages developed country parties and other parties in a position to do so to continue contributing on a voluntary basis to the LDCF in order to support the implementation of the LDC work programme;
Belize, for the Central American Integration System (SICA), supported peaking of GHG emissions by 2015 and called for progress on adaptation and finance.
The negotiating group agreed to request the facilitated group to explore merging: option 1, sub-options a and b, and option 3 of paragraph 143; the sub-bullets of options 1 a-h and 2 a-d of paragraph 141; options 2, 3 and 6 of paragraph 145, recognizing the EU’s reservation; and options a and b under option 1 sub-paragraph g of paragraph 152.
The US suggested carbon neutrality, low-emission development strategies and the long-term temperature goal should be treated in decisions.
ZIMABABWE proposed a workshop to examine the role of insurance.
Samoa, supported by the EU, reminded Parties of the agreement at Kyoto that the COP/MOP would not deal with routine CDM concerns.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the gap on what the Cancun pledges will deliver and what is needed to meet the goal of keeping the temperature increase to 2°C or less.
VIET NAM highlighted the importance of comparability of efforts and baselines.
KIRIBATI underscored the need for development projects to incorporate climate change considerations.
In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage the US economy and would not require developing countries to meet emissions targets.
On the legal framework, Japan stressed that a “narrow amendment” to the Protocol is not an adequate basis for the post-2012 climate regime and said his country can only join a broader legal framework, which includes commitments by the US and major developing countries.
BOLIVIA urged for a careful analysis of market mechanisms, including: an evaluation of the existing mechanisms and the possibility of speculative bubbles; implications of carbon rights for privatization and commoditization of nature; avoiding transfer of developed country responsibilities to developing countries; implications for environmental integrity; and equity in the use of atmospheric space.
In addition, the EU, opposed by CANADA and SAMOA, proposed the insertion of additionality to be considered under methodologies and guidelines.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, said the GEF had provided most non-Annex I Parties with funding for national communications.
The BANGLADESH CENTRE FOR ADVANCED STUDIES, IBERO-AMERICAN NETWORK OF CLIMATE CHANGE OFFICES, the PACIFIC REGION ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME, the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CENTRE and the INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OF AFRICA COORDINATING COMMITTEE reported on regional adaptation projects.
ALGERIA, CHINA, IRAN and INDIA stressed public sources of finance, with CHINA, IRAN, ECUADOR, PALAU and TANZANIA saying that private sector finance should be complementary.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged broad participation in the multilateral assessment, noted the submission of biennial update reports (BURs) and looked forward to further submissions.
INDIA said technological innovation must be shaped by local needs.
The Solomon Islands underscored the vulnerability of SIDS and LDCs and called for stabilization of concentrations below 350 ppm.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a new climate change framework that builds on the Kyoto Protocol, when appropriate, and takes operationalizing the Cancun Agreements as a foundation for future action.
JAPAN and the MARSHALL ISLANDS said consideration of compensation was unacceptable as it is not provided for in the FCCC or the Protocol.
Expressing concern with the pace of work, INDIA highlighted the need to work within the mandate of AWG-LCA and the BAP, and urged developed countries to meet their commitments on technology transfer.
SAUDI ARABIA stated that the emphasis of the AWGLCA’s work programme should be on technology and financial resources.
JAPAN proposed that parties adopt a global 50% reduction goal by 2050.
He asked the EU who would decide which branch an issue should go to.
The EU, with the US, stated that entitlements for trading have already been established under the Kyoto Protocol.
In the discussion, the EU, New Zealand, China and Canada stressed that sectoral approaches should support, not replace, national targets.
To bridge the trust gap and address the challenge of the insufficient provision of means of implementation, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA proposed developing MRV for finance with clear definitions, baselines and scope.
The G-77/CHINA called for effective support for technology transfer in non-Annex I Parties and research to encourage local-level capacity building.
AOSIS highlighted the need for the mechanisms to be based on sound environmental principles and, with VENEZUELA, called for adequate time for consideration.
POLAND and SAUDI ARABIA suggested amending the last sentence of paragraph 2 on IPCC assistance, which now reads, "The Bureau of SBSTA will request the IPCC Bureau to hold joint meetings and report to each of its sessions on the outcome of these meetings."
As many lamented, the US$100 billion finance mobilization goal, set to be reached by developed countries in 2020, is “essentially extended in the decision through 2025,” after which time parties will have to negotiate a new collective goal, which some interpreted as including an expectation that some developing countries should participate in the mobilization.
COLOMBIA, with URUGUAY, BOLIVIA and CHILE, called for small-scale sinks projects.
Supported by AOSIS and others, Brazil stressed, however, that the two AWGs should always meet in parallel.
UKRAINE expressed concern that all issues had not been adequately reflected and called for further work.
The UK stressed that existing commitments to prepare national communications are as important as future commitments resulting from the Berlin Mandate.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, called for separate discussions on capacity building for developing countries and countries with economies in transition.
AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) explained that he had been engaged in extended consultations on how to structure the agenda of the meeting.
The G-77/CHINA noted that developing countries are the most vulnerable to climate change and the least able to adapt, and are committed to modify trends in human-induced emissions through the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
He summarized the main features of the AOSIS protocol: an additional commitment that developed countries reduce CO2 emissions by 2005 to 20% below 1990 levels; no additional commitments for developing countries; a comprehensive approach to other greenhouse gases in a phased manner; and a coordination mechanism for cooperation on economic, administrative and other implementation measures.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS also called for regional workshops on adaptation.
Views of the EU, the US and the G-77/China were compiled in document FCCC/SBSTA/1998/MISC.5.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions as amended, on the understanding that the paragraph (6)(bis), proposed by the G-77 and China, and the new paragraphs (2) and (3), proposed by the Philippines, will be included in a document available for discussion and consideration at the second session.
UZBEKISTAN noted that constraints included lack of research and data on emissions factors.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that some market mechanisms, such as taxes and subsidies, will have significant spillover effects on developing countries and trade.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by BOLIVIA, BRAZIL, SENEGAL, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, ARGENTINA, CUBA, ZAMBIA and CHINA, proposed taking note of those Annex I parties that oppose a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, focusing discussions on the conditionalities set by those Annex I parties interested in moving the process forward and seeing whether the conditions have been met or can be met, prior to a round of political decision-making.
The US noted that the objectives of the Convention cannot be achieved simply through Article 4.2(a) or (b).
TUVALU, for the \t\tAlliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), highlighted the need for strong \t\tlinkages with the 10-year review of the implementation of the Barbados \t\tProgramme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island \t\tDeveloping States (BPOA+10) and the World Conference on Disaster \t\tReduction (WCDR), and emphasized the importance of dialogue on \t\tadaptation.
BRAZIL suggested the workshops should be held back-to-back with the negotiating session.
Parties agreed to conduct informal consultations, co-facilitated by Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) and Jens Fugl (EU).
CANADA called for bracketed text to be restructured to reflect clear options.
TUVALU suggested that support for the forum on response measures would be contingent on agreement on loss and damage.
CANADA preferred keeping the quantitative and qualitative sub-themes separate.
MARSHALL ISLANDS suggested discussing: views on the separation of these phases; lessons learned from the structured expert dialogue (SED); and common timeframes.
ARGENTINA called for a mechanism to facilitate adaptation projects.
She also drew attention to the \t\t\tUS Climate Action Partnership, which is calling on the US to adopt \t\t\tstrong national legislation on emissions.
Noting the importance of guiding principles, AOSIS and the LDCs noted that the SCCF 92s principles should not create obstacles in accessing financing.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed a formula for relevant sections: state the level of obligation or precision for developed and developing countries; provide flexibility for developing countries, such as “all countries willing to do so,” which Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported; and provide further flexibility for African countries, LDCs and SIDS.
NORWAY said that, in principle, more ambitious targets are the best way to address surplus AAUs.
JAPAN said clarifying scientific and technical issues, through a review of Annex I activities and quantitative assessment of their effects, would provide guidance to form a protocol.
The PHILIPPINES urged parties to consider where progress has and has not been made on implementing BAP, highlighting that the AWG-LCA’s work is not complete.
He said the EU had a duty to set an example by developing more economical forms of consumption and production in terms of natural resources.
Annex I countries have to take lead in action, which is why the EU wants this balance.
The US proposed text based on an iterative process, drawing on experiences.
SWITZERLAND, COLOMBIA and INDIA highlighted the need \t\tfor transparency in the Board 92s work and the G-77/CHINA suggested \t\tstrengthening the text on governance.
However, the \t\tgroup deliberated into the early hours of the morning, and parties \t\tagreed, without the US, to a draft decision on a dialogue on long term \t\taction.
BRAZIL, with SAMOA and the EU, suggested framing "financial penalty" as a separate option.
The US proposed that Parties decide only on the biennial costs of the UNFCCC, and not preparatory and operational costs associated with the Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed deleting the entire paragraph.
COSTA RICA said future generations will judge the present generation based on whether the Protocol is ratified.
The PHILIPPINES said his country remains “agnostic” and that decision on the legal form of the outcome depends on various issues.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said that in general, the text presents a “decent basis” to work from, but highlighted the lack of ambition in the text, and also called for more reference to the rules-based regime.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and KYRGYZSTAN supported the proposal.
GUATEMALA, also speaking for some other Latin American countries, said reference to local and indigenous knowledge should be expanded to read: “seek, enhance, support and promote local and indigenous knowledge and techniques which have been experienced worldwide historically and successfully.” BOLIVIA underlined that traditional or indigenous knowledge could be obtained worldwide and said the text should reflect this.
CANADA and JAPAN also requested more detailed information on specific sections of the document.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS stressed concerns regarding evaluation of progress made, and said they would provide a textual proposal.
The EU, Canada, Australia and Japan, opposed by Slovenia, supported one combined session for the sake of efficiency, noting that some details needed clarification.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by THAILAND, COLOMBIA and the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that discussions on REDD-plus are more advanced than those on NAMAs and that REDD-plus can inform development of NAMAs.
Chair Appadu said the entire text, \t\tincluding the conclusions that had been agreed on and further proposals \t\tfrom the US, EU, G-77/CHINA and AUSTRALIA, will be forwarded to SBI-21 \t\tfor negotiation.
The AFRICAN GROUP expressed hope that the EGTT’s activities would accelerate technology transfer to Africa.
On defining co-benefits, the G-77/CHINA requested that energy efficiency be included; COLOMBIA, with BOLIVIA, suggested that social benefits be included; INDIA called for poverty alleviation to be added; and SENEGAL requested that mention be made of negative spillover effects and sustainable development.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said criteria for determining parties’ intention would need to be clarified.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged agreement on LULUCF accounting rules, flexible mechanisms, length of commitment period after 2012, transformation of pledges into QELROs and the basket of gases.
The US recognized that since “five or six parties” were not in favor of the Accord, no consensus was reached.
CHINA expressed concern that the text did not explain \t\tthat this number relates to technical, as opposed to economic, storage \t\tpotential.
The US proposed exploring the eligibility of AIJ projects under the CDM or JI.
SAUDI ARABIA urged adopting the Protocol amendment at COP/MOP 4, while the EU said it should form part of broader post-2012 discussions.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of G-77/China, said the basic principle for choosing TAP members should be based on regional representation.
Calling for a focus on LDCs, SIDS and the most vulnerable countries, Bangladesh said existing arrangements for delivery were insufficient.
COLOMBIA reminded parties that the establishment of the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund (AF) took nine years and suggested enhancing the AF and injecting “substantial funds” to it.
 The LDCs, AOSIS, Belize, for CARICOM, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, the Marshall Islands and the US called for a five-year cycle.
The EU underscored addressing loss and damage at the country level.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed that the APA should not be pressured to complete its work due to early entry into force and called for suspending CMA 1 to allow all parties to participate.
BARBADOS noted the need for supplementary principles to enhance action on the provision of financial resources.
A contact group was supported by Bolivia, for the  G-77/CHINA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the EU and NORWAY.
The EU stressed that the work plan on enhancing mitigation ambition was a core element of the Durban package.
BRAZIL said CCS is important to combat climate change but opposed its inclusion under the CDM, highlighting non-permanence and environmental integrity.
 \t\t \t\tThe EU urged building on the CDM 92s recent growth through continuous \t\timprovements in the Board 92s functioning, transparency in decision \t\tmaking, and shifting towards a more supervisory role.
MEXICO outlined its preparations for Cancún, including a public-private sector dialogue from 15-16 July.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stated that a shared vision should articulate thematic areas of the Bali Action Plan towards the achievement of a long-term global goal and that the global goal for emission reductions should be expressed in such a way as to guide actions in a political and technical way.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a transition towards a climate change framework including all major economies, taking into account countries’ respective capabilities.
The next IPCC plenary session will be held from 24-29 September 2001 in London, UK.
In paragraph 7, the EU"s reference to collaboration between the Secretariat, non-Annex I Parties, the GEF and the subsidiary bodies was rejected by the US.
During discussions in a Wednesday evening facilitated group, parties exchanged views on proposals from the G-77/China and EIG, but continued to differ on a common interpretation of the mandate of workstream 2.
MICRONESIA said that adaptation actions are key, \t\tand expressed concern that the proposed time-frame to conduct \t\tassessments during 2005-9 is too long, considering the urgency of the \t\tmatter.
The MALDIVES urged all Parties to agree on, and \t\toperationalize, the LDC Fund.
Discussions focused on the level of ambition of the JWG, in particular whether it should 93complete its work 94 at COP-6, as proposed by the EU, the US and others, or 93make substantial progress 94 at COP-6, as supported by SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, UAE and others.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, observed a step back in negotiations on: finance, where he said there is a dilution of developed countries’ obligations; and NDCs, where he stressed that they are “full scope” and reflect differentiation.
AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened the resumed AWG-LCA 14, recalling the goal of forwarding a comprehensive, balanced and robust outcome to the COP.
Colombia said the AILAC proposal is for: a global transformational goal; a short-term quantitative goal with a list of commitments by parties; and a dynamic process to scale-up the quantitative goal, which considers national budgetary cycles and responds to changing needs and capabilities.
The US stressed a package deal on all three texts, and said they should remain bracketed in their entirety.
Many parties, including Mali, Costa Rica for AILAC, the US, Maldives for AOSIS, the Democratic Republic of the Congo for the LDCs, and the EU supported the Presidency’s proposal.
The EU said it is considering applying unilateral measures to reduce emissions from international transport if no significant progress is achieved within the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and International Maritime Organization (IMO).
KUWAIT disagreed with the EU, noting that this Convention was more far-reaching that the Montreal Protocol, and required a more "open-minded" process.
DENMARK urged political will 93not in speeches, \t\tbut on the negotiating table, 94 and 93not in the future, but now.
The US noted the need for convergence on a centralized and coordinated financial architecture.
SWITZERLAND called for coordination between various international environmental agreements, particularly the Montreal and Kyoto Protocols.
ARGENTINA stressed that the Kyoto Protocol should remain the foundation for future Annex I commitments, and be strengthened, and VENEZUELA indicated there is no need to renegotiate the existing legal framework.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and UKRAINE, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed deleting this paragraph.
 The CZECH REPUBLIC sought assistance to countries with economies in transition because their growth potential is substantial.
Highlighting cost implications, NEW ZEALAND \t\tcalled for discussions on post-2012 rules for LULUCF.
IRAN said new mechanisms are needed to address shortcomings of existing ones.
Parties also considered an AOSIS proposal relating to provisional application of the Protocol amendment, an AOSIS proposal for amendments and an African Groups proposal on legal issues.
 The US said that much more useful information is available than is reported in national communications.
The US said the ministers should reflect on the IPCC findings and focus public attention on the issue.
Uganda, for the LDCs, highlighted difficulties in implementing national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) due to inadequate resources.
The EU suggested coordinating the various capacity-building initiatives so as to optimize resource use.
The US proposed including Table 2.2 from the longer SYR report, which shows cumulative CO2 emission budgets related to three different temperature goals at different probability levels.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by AUSTRALIA, called for discussion of objectives and scope.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, reiterated concern with the slow progress towards a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for a “solid and strong” definition of comparability, highlighting the Protocol as the basis for comparability assessment and identifying the need to define comparability through international negotiations rather than nationally.
SWITZERLAND said its GHG inventory indicates that carbon dioxide emissions may stabilize at 1990 levels by 2000.
 \t\tThe US commended the Argentine proposal \t\tbut preferred to postpone making a decision until discussions on the \t\timplementation of decision 5/CP.7 conclude, to prevent overlaps.
AUSTRALIA called for recognizing support to developing countries from various sources.
New Zealand, \t\t\tUK, Norway, Switzerland, Argentina, US, France, Canada, Australia, \t\t\tGermany, Austria, Japan, Kenya, Sweden, and the Coordinating Lead \t\t\tAuthors opposed this suggestion.
Republic of Korea, for EIG, called for the international assessment and review (IAR) and international consultation and analysis to provide lessons for the Paris Agreement’s transparency framework and for resolving outstanding issues on the budget.
Tuvalu proposed a new legally-binding instrument and the EU said it should be part of a post-2012 agreement.
The EU supported addressing sections of the text thematically and suggested starting with the text on commitments.
AUSTRALIA, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by SAMOA, PALAU, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL, argued against binding consequences.
The EU, opposed by the US and MALAYSIA for G-77/CHINA, proposed an agenda item on the methodological issues relating to the stabilization of greenhouse gas emissions.
The G-77/CHINA said this proposal did not adequately meet the needs of developing country Parties.
BRAZIL supported postponing payment of the registration fee until the first issuance of Certified Emission Reductions, saying the CDM Executive Board could take prompt action.
NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, noted the technology concerns of developing countries and called for the immediate formation of a contact group.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted REDD and carbon capture and storage (CCS) under the CDM.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed a new paragraph as an alternative option.
  In the morning, co-facilitator Andrew Rakestraw (US) suggested, and parties agreed, that in lieu of discussing the APA Co-Chairs’ revised text, which was not yet released, the group would continue technical negotiations in informal informals.
He requested the Chair to include these elements, as contained in the EU’s draft protocol, in the document to be prepared for AGBM-6.
NORWAY and JAPAN highlighted that their participation in the flexibility mechanisms must also be considered.
ICELAND called for analytical work on obstacles to technology transfer and options for their removal.
The BAHAMAS highlighted mitigation efforts by AOSIS.
On a headline sentence stating that  , the EU, with the UK, suggested referring to e2 80 9cemission reductions e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cefforts.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for, inter alia: stricter targets; a comprehensive framework; short-, medium- and long-term adaptation programmes; and long-term finance.
 This issue (IPCC-XXXIII/Doc.11 and Add.1) was first taken up by the plenary on Tuesday, and then in various contact group meetings co-chaired by Todd Krieble (New Zealand) and Munjurul Hannan Khan (Bangladesh), with Jim Skea (UK) as Rapporteur.
The EU submitted a statement of concern regarding the Declaration, calling on all countries to engage in a common dialogue with a view to further action consistent with the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective and based on the TAR.
BHUTAN said polluters should pay for adaptation financing.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated the importance of building on the informal notes from APA 1-3, and expressed concern about developed countries’ lack of political will on indicating funding for developing countries.
CANADA \t\tsaid these decisions will 93breathe life 94 into the Protocol and provide \t\tthe basis for implementation.
Brazil, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, called for balanced progress on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation; lamented the lack of transparency in the third biennial reports on finance-related information provided by developed countries, and stressed the need to focus on pre-2020 ambition.
The US opposed making specific reference to these articles and noted a paragraph leaving open the option of future linkage through Article 7 and relevant decisions by the COP or COP/MOP.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance of: national adaptation plans; loss and damage; and further work on Convention Article 6.
Australia, New Zealand, the US, Canada and others said all parties in a position to do so should provide support for the implementation of the new agreement.
AOSIS highlighted the need to begin work on the global stocktake and noted the need for simplified procedures for expedited access to finance for states lacking capacity.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for parallelism in the cycles for mitigation and MOI, noting that if LDCs are to contribute to mitigation, support for their efforts must be provided in parallel.
COLOMBIA said the Paris Agreement aims to build on the Convention.
With POLAND, he stressed that an AIJ project should be eligible under JI or the CDM if it meets the criteria for eligibility and if the Parties involved agree to do so.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, noted that the current financial crisis demonstrates that existing institutions do not work.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said the ADP should take as its departure point the results of the other AWGs.
The US, supported by the EU and AUSTRALIA, noted that the text does not contain actions that all parties can take to address adaptation.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for deep and ambitious emission reduction commitments by Annex I countries, and for ensuring that efforts under the Protocol do not impose constraints on the most vulnerable countries.
SENEGAL said technical and financial support was vital for non-Annex I Parties\' preparation of preliminary national communications.
On additional guidance to the GEF on support to the IPCC, the EU said that whereas the Parties should send signals to the GEF that the IPCC project could benefit the process, it was not appropriate for the FCCC to prejudge the decision-making of the GEF Council.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, raised concern over adopting the GPG without sufficient time for its examination, and over the practicality of considering the GPG for the UNFCCC and Protocol separately.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and others underscored the need to accelerate the process.
In the closing plenary, South Africa and Tuvalu, for AOSIS, stressed the importance of this issue, with AOSIS identifying it as a step towards innovative funding for adaptation.
The EU supported a multilateral, ambitious rules-based system with broad participation, notably from major economies.
\t\tWhile the LCDF funds projects for LDCs 92 urgent and immediate needs as \t\tidentified in NAPAs, SCCF funds projects in priority areas of \t\tintervention with a longer-term approach and strategy.
Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, mentioned that it had submitted a protocol for consideration and wants time to discuss it.
NEW ZEALAND and others, opposed by ALGERIA and others, urged the use of national communications to identify consequences.
The EU reiterated that there was no need for additional spin-off groups and, with the US, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN, sought clarification on whether the AWG-LCA Chair proposed establishing an informal meeting of the contact group.
CHINA noted that efforts to advance existing commitments are handicapped by a lack of resources and called for a substantial increase in the GEF replenishment.
Chile, for AILAC, called for the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C to be a key element of the political phase of the Dialogue, and NORWAY noted the report would provide a scientific basis to understand where we are, and how to get where we need to be.
The EU identified low-carbon transitions and land use as missing themes.
GABON highlighted the importance of Central African \t\tforests in global carbon sequestration and emphasized the need to \t\tstreamline the funding process.
Bolivia for the G-77/China, Colombia for AILAC, the Arab Group, and Australia stressed NDCs’ nationally determined nature.
The US, the Russian Federation, and Finland proposed possibly moving the section on natural disturbances to an appendix, saying that it only applies to a few countries.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed including reference to both the updating and implementation of NAPAs.
They decided to continue discussing the request by the CACAM at the next SBI session, noting that the CACAM can access GEF funding.
CANADA said a prompt decision on the mechanisms was critical for encouraging: ratification of the Protocol; early reductions; and reduced cost.
The US supported strong market-based institutions to manage \t\tlong-term climate change.
The US conceded delays in developing guidelines on enabling activities but opposed the suggestion that cost effectiveness should not be a criteria.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, AOSIS and AUSTRALIA, urged also including the review of the AFB in the TORs.
The EU urged more progress on issues such as mitigation commitments and pledges.
SENEGAL called for evaluation of vulnerability in Africa by COP-6.
TURKEY highlighted a robust, transparent and effective global carbon market for realizing global mitigation goals, called for new market mechanisms and urged prevention of carbon leakage through robust MRV.
On obstacles to producing non-Annex I communications, the G-77/CHINA called for provision of adequate financial resources, technical assistance and capacity-building to support non-Annex I countries in collecting data and identifying national emission factors and methodologies for adaptation assessment.
CANADA underlined the need to build confidence in carbon sinks and increase private-sector participation.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed that the outcome from Bangkok should identify the key issues needed in an agreed outcome in Copenhagen.
Participants discussed: challenges faced by SIDS in accessing finance; bankability and project design; need for a committee to coordinate linkages; support for capital-intensive research, development and demonstration; the role of the CTCN as a “matchmaker” to turn the TNAs into bankable projects; and linkages between the GEF and GCF on technology.
Noting only three years are left for emissions to peak, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, emphasized the increasing costs associated with waiting to act, and lamented that the financial needs for implementing the Paris Agreement have not been met.
Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), expressed concern about calls by Annex I parties to end the Kyoto Protocol in favor of a single agreement in Copenhagen.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, disagreed with the draft conclusions that propose forwarding guidelines for national systems under Article 5.1 (national systems) for consideration by SBI-13.
NORWAY and SINGAPORE called for a broadened focus on governance issues without challenging national sovereignty.
AUSTRALIA and the EU stressed the need to address emissions from international aviation and maritime transport.
On sources of information, AUSTRALIA and the US said that due process required the defending party to be able to present necessary information and rebut evidence against it.
COLOMBIA asked how research and systematic observation would be addressed as it is a cross-cutting issue.
SWITZERLAND emphasized that thematically-focused technical work should be complemented by more frequent political dialogue, saying that the starting point should be potential, costs, and readiness for action, rather than assessing whether an action is “inside or outside” the Convention.
CHINA indicated that progress on comparability is required, otherwise the Bali Action Plan mandate will not be accomplished and the AWG-LCA will not be able to terminate its work in Doha.
The speaker was disappointed with INC-11 thus far, and said the AOSIS proposal was "everyone"s opportunity for survival."
COLOMBIA, SAINT LUCIA, TUVALU, BOLIVIA, ARGENTINA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed discussion of technical rules in spin-off groups before setting the political context.
The US emphasized the need for an approach that does not merge UNFCCC and Protocol issues as this would impact on the rights of Parties to the UNFCCC that are not members of the Protocol.
ECUADOR and the US presented on experiences in assessing risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems to different climate change scenarios at regional, national and local levels, with ECUADOR underscoring the importance of aligning these with broader national strategies.
The EU expressed concern that using multiple base years would require a Protocol amendment, as several provisions, including Protocol Articles 3.5 and 3.7, refer to “1990” rather than to “base year.” Australia noted that multiple base years present challenges in the calculation of AAUs.
On a preambular paragraph regarding the ultimate objective of the Convention requiring “strengthening the multilateral, rules-based regime” and implementation of existing commitments, the African Group, supported by Pakistan and opposed by the EU, preferred “multilateral, rules-based regime under the Convention.”
The EU called for recognizing that the deadline for the reporting of Assigned Amount Units may be delayed if the Common Reporting Format 3 Reporter software is not available in a timely manner or properly functioning.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted three main pillars of a Doha outcome: an ambitious second commitment period that would allow for a higher level of ambition from all Annex I parties; finance under the AWG-LCA; and a balanced treatment of all elements under the ADP.
e2 80 9d Addressing the box in the longer report, the UK, Australia, the US, Japan, Canada and the EU expressed reservations on using the authors e2 80 99 text as a basis for discussion.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed support for the AWG-LCA Chair’s work plan, called for identifying what has been agreed at previous COPs and stated that discussions on all topics must be completed and not simply transferred to different bodies.
BOLIVIA said biofuels pose a risk to food security.
China, India, Sudan, and Saudi Arabia proposed structured submissions on priority themes for consideration at the workshop, while the EU and Norway said there was no need for further submissions.
JAPAN suggested building on progress made on sectoral approaches, emphasizing that goals can be differentiated among countries but there should be common metrics.
On  , the EU and Canada expressed an interest in discount factors, and the Republic of Korea and Ethiopia supported multiplication factors.
MALAWI highlighted scale, progression, and predictability.
The US said that the COP/MOP need have no role in the screening process.
The EU said Convention Article 2 (objective) is not sufficient, and AOSIS stated that the task is to operationalize the Article in light of scientific advances.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at a lack of inclusivity, transparency, and time to participate in negotiations on matters relating to LDCs, and regretted that text in the draft conclusions was not discussed during the negotiations.
The EU supported the organizational proposal but opposed the proposal regarding the timing.
 On the business consultative mechanism, NEW ZEALAND reported the draft results of a contact group.
On the Co-Chair’s draft text, AOSIS said her submissions, including proposals on extending the share of proceeds, expanding the list of greenhouse gases, and carry over of AAUs, had not been incorporated.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized the need to: preserve the balance between issues laid out in the Paris Agreement; achieve a consistent package reflecting parties’ textual submissions; and bear in mind national circumstances.
Throughout the meeting, developing countries expressed dismay that instead of trying to breathe new life into it, they were “writing the obituary” for the Kyoto Protocol, and accused the EU and other developed countries of “attempted murder.”
TUVALU, for AOSIS, stressed the need for consultation with national experts.
The US expressed disappointment that the G-77/China position paper (FCCC/SB/1998/Misc.1/Add.5) had just emerged as a miscellaneous (misc.)
UN Secretary-General Ant c3 b3nio Guterres underlined that SIDS are at the frontlines of climate change and that they must be the “voice of us all.” With respect to big infrastructure projects, he said, “if they are not green they should not be given the green light,” and urged donor nations to bring the GCF fully to life.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for regional workshops on adaptation.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, said references to response measures should be bracketed.
On demonstrable progress, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraph recognizing the first national communication submitted under Article 7.2, stressing that the approach was too narrow.
France, on behalf of the EU, accepted this compromise, and added a footnote to paragraph 2(b) that a reference to communications include regional economic integration organizations included in the Convention.
NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN urged referring to transparency of support provided and received.
The UK proposed using the term “stabilization” rather than referring to UNFCCC Article 2.
ARGENTINA called for a bottom-up, country-driven approach to technology action.
The US suggested that to broaden participation, countries should be allowed to define their own mitigation contributions according to national circumstances.
JAPAN suggested alternate wording related to the “promotion of co-benefits.” UKRAINE, supported by JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed the retention of this option for Track 2 of JI.
The EU said creating a new mechanism should be considered once the review of current efforts is completed.
 SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of VENEZUELA, IRAN, KUWAIT, UAE, SYRIA, QATAR, JORDAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NIGERIA, OMAN, BAHRAIN, SUDAN and YEMEN, reported a lack of transparency throughout the Conference.
JAPAN stressed existing institutions are functioning well.
The EU discussed their 20% emission reduction target from 1990 levels by 2020, and reiterated willingness to undertake a 30% reduction target as part of a global and comprehensive agreement, provided that other developed countries commit themselves to comparable reductions and developing countries contribute adequately according to their differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
EGYPT stressed the need to promote \t\tfunding, technology transfer and CDM activities.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA suggested flexible membership and said that TAP-T should concentrate only on assessing technologies and not on their transfer.
On the third point, the US, with Germany, Canada and Switzerland, opposed by Egypt, objected to a full translation of the literature assisted by a UN-based language service, questioning the necessity and the cost of such translations.
MEXICO said territorial planning should take into account long-term risks, noting the possibility of population relocation.
On the CRF, the US and SWITZERLAND urged retaining links with the Revised 1996 IPCC Reporting Guidelines, and, with the EU, said the categories in the sectoral tables should be consistent with the GPG.
The GEF remarked on the third replenishment, which will allow the GEF to increase funding for climate change related activities, and noted that the GEF will make initial disbursements under the UNFCCC LDC Fund in the coming weeks.
CROATIA noted that some Annex I countries emit less per capita than some developing countries, highlighting the inclusion of all countries in emission reduction efforts.
On reporting under Articles 10 and 11, the G-77/China, opposed by the US and EU, said Annex I Parties should also be requested to report on the implementation of their commitments related to the transfer of technologies and the provision of "new and additional" financial resources.
MEXICO, the US and BRAZIL supported including existing institutions under the new agreement to facilitate its implementation.
The EU noted the need for a high-level forum or body to provide an overview of international distribution of financial flows.
The G-77/ CHINA highlighted the need to distinguish between additionality and baselines, and underlined reference to funding additionality.
INDIA said work on long-term finance should ensure consistency with CBDR and discussions in other bodies under the Convention.
On a preambular paragraph on strengthening and scaling up adaptation action, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by EGYPT, suggested adding references to the elements of Decision 1/CP.17 (establishing the ADP) and vulnerability of developing countries.
Germany, supported by the UK and New Zealand, called for greater attention to mitigation strategies.
CANADA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO on behalf of AOSIS stated that Article 17.2 (six month rule) should not hinder the new legal instrument.
SWITZERLAND stated, on the objective of eliminating obstacles, that care must be used to ensure that all actions are acceptable.
Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) and Jens Fugl (EU).
BRAZIL said it is unclear why specific proposals should receive specific time slots and, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that no concepts incompatible with the BAP should be introduced.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, VENEZUELA, INDIA, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, NICARAGUA, IRAN and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, raised concerns over the legal status of the revised draft decision and revised elements for a draft negotiating text.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said their priorities in Doha include the adoption of a legally-binding, ratifiable second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and strong financial commitments.
SWEDEN and DENMARK supported coordinated measures in taxation, and FRANCE called for a tax on CO2 emissions and a simple differentiation mechanism.
The EU underscored its intention to avoid a commitment gap and noted that progress on technical issues formed part of the political answer required to move to a second commitment period.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS highlighted the need for fast-start financing for urgent adaptation needs and pointed to the difficulty of negotiating text without an understanding of the form of the outcome.
Many, including Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, GUYANA, Panama, for the CfRN, INDIA, FIJI, INDONESIA, BRAZIL and CHINA, stressed that additional guidance on safeguards is premature.
He also highlighted that the success of other trading systems such as the US SO2 market had been attributed to the existence of financial penalties.
South Africa, the UK, the US and others suggested that the discussion on a SR was premature, given that the issue of a separate SR had not even been considered by the Task Group on Future IPCC Activities, and that such a decision needed input from the AR5 scoping meeting, and delegates agreed.
ARGENTINA said financing, technology transfer, and capacity building discussions were needed.
CANADA cautioned against moving beyond the group 92s mandate.
Many parties noted the dwindling of negotiating days before Paris, with Angola, for the LDCs, requesting that negotiations begin immediately, and the US, with EGYPT, suggesting adding days to the ADP e2 80 99s next session.
On entry into force, the EU, JAPAN and the ARAB GROUP noted that entry into force lacks a double threshold.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China requested additional time so that the G-77 and China could continue to work on preparing its own amendments regarding this matter.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested agreeing on the core elements of the 2015 agreement as quickly as possible and addressing information required for INDCs.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted gaps in the fulfilment of the Standing Committee’s mandate to be addressed under the AWG-LCA, such as on MRV of support provided to developing parties.
The EU highlighted annual reporting by Annex I parties under the Protocol, while CHINA noted that the EU’s fifth national communication contains only 2-3 pages on the impacts of response measures and focuses on positive impacts.
The EU said a lot has been achieved on the long-term finance agenda and said the Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows confirms that finance has been mobilized.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined three elements to enhance transparency in a new agreement: reporting impacts of climate actions; reporting on finance; and keeping these provisions in line with Convention principles, provisions and annexes.
NORWAY, with the EU, AUSTRALIA, the US and CANADA, stated that: the national communications and their reviews were important to the Convention process; reporting issues and guidelines required increased attention; and the Secretariat should conduct more analytical work.
IRAN and BURKINA FASO called for enhanced data collection at regional and subregional levels.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that any outside process, including the Secretary-General’s initiative, can only inform UNFCCC parties.
Identifying the need to look at the broader financial architecture, the EU questioned the difference between defining and establishing the financial mechanism.
CANADA noted parallel discussions under the AWG-LCA on market mechanisms and said discussions on whether and how the CDM fits in would be useful.
EGYPT warned that borrowing could constitute an excuse to delay action.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, recalled the G-77/China’s proposal for a technical panel on comparability of developed countries’ mitigation efforts and stressed that commitments should be defined top down, reflect science and be part of the formal outcome of the negotiations.
  The G-77/CHINA said the Adaptation Fund must be fully operationalized with sufficient and predictable resources, and stressed the principle of direct access.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the need to arrive at an effective agreement in Copenhagen.
CANADA highlighted the need to be responsive to those whose participation is critical to entry into force of the Protocol.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified the need for capacity building at the regional and national levels.
In response to Belgium, SAUDI ARABIA said the UNFCCC 92s aim is not to reduce oil dependency.
Spain, for the EU, identified the need to discuss legal formalization of emission reduction targets and clarify the pledges, including the covered sources and greenhouse gases (GHGs).
GHANA highlighted the role of positive incentives.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and SOUTH AFRICA called for transforming the outputs of the TEMs into implementation on the ground.
The US, supported by NORWAY, called for using actual methodology where data is available.
INDONESIA stressed the importance of capacity building, adaptation, Annex I domestic action, and technology transfer.
Following opposition by SAUDI ARABIA to holding "informal informal" consultations among Parties to develop new text, delegates agreed that the Co-Chairs would present a new text during the week, as far as possible without brackets and based on discussions within the group and from informal consultations.
On options for an informal document, stressing that negotiations on the PAWP should remain party-driven, Iran, for LMDCs, and INDONESIA, supported option 1.
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRIA and HUNGARY, and \t\topposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the IPCC should defer \t\tconsideration of further work on aerosols until the AR4 is completed.
Peru, for AILAC, underscored the adoption of a gender action plan as an important COP 23 deliverable.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of several countries in the region, \t\tsuggested that the Executive Board had exceeded its mandate from the \t\tCOP/MOP in relation to forestry issues.
The MALDIVES identified challenges with establishing MRV systems, noting that CDM approaches have been “project-centric” and costly.
On mitigation in the agriculture sector, URUGUAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, called for increased action, and proposed a workshop on this topic in Poznan.
The decision on the CGE (FCCC/SBI/2001/L.10/Rev.1) states that at least one member of the CGE from LDCs and at least one member of the CGE from an Annex II Party should also be members of the LDC Expert Group, in order to establish linkage on issues related to adaptation; that the CGE shall conduct two workshops in 2002; that during 2002 the Secretariat shall organize a meeting of the LDC Expert Group back to back with a meeting of the CGE; and that the terms of reference of the CGE shall be reviewed at COP-8.
The US said the Report 92s authors would address all scenarios and there was no need to be specific.
On placement of text, the Marshall Islands, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and the US, emphasized that the aggregate ambition assessment should be part of the agreement, while specific modalities could be established in future decisions.
On long-term and global aspects of adaptation, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND did not support linkages between mitigation ambition, adaptation needs, the global temperature goal and finance, with NEW ZEALAND opposing a global goal on adaptation.
CHINA indicated that financial support flows should be separate and distinct from official development assistance.
 LITHUANIA: Rapolas Liuzinas, Deputy Minister of the Environment, noted his country’s recent strides in restructuring its industrial sector for increased energy efficiency and its commitment to comply with the FCCC.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, highlighted the importance of technology transfer and called for including language in the body of the guidelines.
She said a political outcome was inadequate, and AOSIS would “have to consider our options” if a legally-binding outcome is not achieved.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA gave a presentation highlighting the need to cap the use of LULUCF and address the issue of surplus Assigned Amount Units (AAUs).
GRENADA, supported by PERU and the EU, and opposed by UGANDA, preferred deleting the paragraph exempting SIDS from payment of fees and retaining the option permitting postponement of the payment of fees by parties with fewer than ten registered projects, noting that exempting all countries with fewer than ten projects could negatively impact functioning of the CDM Executive Board.
CANADA stressed the principles of equity, common but differentiated responsibilities, precaution and “polluter pays.” Bahamas, for AOSIS, drew attention to the right to existence.
EGYPT, with CHINA, endorsed differentiation between elements requiring Protocol amendment and those that can be adopted as COP/MOP decisions.
Stressing that the national adaptation plans should not be prescriptive, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said they should recognize that adaptation occurs at the local level, and be flexible and country-driven.
SAUDI ARABIA said the workshop should \t\taddress socioeconomic aspects of mitigation.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and SOLOMON ISLANDS drew attention to the AOSIS proposal, emphasizing that its aim is to secure the survival of the Kyoto Protocol and a protocol to enhance the Convention’s implementation.
Ecuador, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), called for 300ppm targets, with temperature increases of 1-1.5°C, and proposed an international tribunal for climate and environment.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested an ad hoc working group that would process the technical aspects to produce an output for the political phase.
PAKISTAN said some parties are not looking for a solution on long-term finance and called for completion of work on the mandate of the Bali Action Plan in Durban.
The AFRICAN GROUP said issues of afforestation, reforestation and the preservation/reclamation of wetlands should feature highly among CDM projects.
Pakistan, \t\tfor the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), stressed the unique \t\tvulnerability of least developed countries (LDCs), the African region, \t\tand small island developing states (SIDS).
SAUDI ARABIA \t\tsaid energy taxation should be restructured to reflect carbon content.
The EU highlighted developments since Bangkok.
The US added that the operative text should concentrate on national and cooperative actions.
Switzerland, for EIG, said that all parties should adopt nationally-determined commitments and targets, featuring highest possible contributions from all, coupled with internationally determined MRV rules.
He noted that proposals by Germany, France and the UK on legally binding reduction objectives are already contained in the other proposals and can be deleted.
On the “food-water-energy-climate” workshop sub-theme, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the UK, asked for the energy reference to be removed, noting that energy had already been discussed in other IPCC products.
BANGLADESH called on Parties to earmark funds from the GEF for LDCs.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, supported Tuvalu’s concerns about a conflict of interest if the trustee were able to sell CERs as well as buy them.
The EU called for capturing mitigation options with the highest potential in a technical paper and addressing conditions for increasing pledges.
COSTA RICA replied that although currently one individual was serving in two capacities, as the Chair of AGBM and Vice-President of the Conference, they did not consider the posts to be linked.
GERMANY suggested a ceiling for mechanisms and, with FRANCE, supported the inclusion of sanctions in the compliance system.
BOLIVIA also proposed a new paragraph on the COP/MOP encouraging the SBI to conclude its work on agenda item 14 (amendments to the Kyoto Protocol with respect to procedures and mechanisms relating to compliance).
BOTSWANA emphasized the need to ensure REDD+ covers transboundary ecosystems.
The US also suggested providing non-Parties with positive incentives to join the regime.
The EIG said not all items needed submissions, and suggested item 6 (GST) could have submissions and a technical paper.
On institutional mechanisms, the G-77/China, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Chile, the LDCs, Turkey, Palau and the EU said the GCF should be anchored into the agreement.
BOLIVIA also suggested addressing in the presentations how to increase the level of ambition.
On activities implemented jointly, MALAWI noted Africa 92s limited experience and called for a continuation of the pilot phase.
 The EU said the SBI should ask the SBSTA for clarification on comprehensiveness and comparability.
The US, with the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, suggested a shortened formulation making reference only to the 2015 agreement.
NIGERIA suggested GEF sub-regional offices for project monitoring.
LDC \t\tExpert Group Chair Paul Desanker (Malawi) spoke about adaptation \t\ttechnologies in NAPAs.
NORWAY stressed the need to consider environmental integrity.
BRAZIL and INDIA also said that food security and poverty eradication are important elements that should remain, and, with CHINA, called for specifying that poverty eradication relates to developing countries.
PAKISTAN supported the articulation of a shared vision for all the building blocks and emphasized that peaking periods for developing countries were conditional on the development threshold.
The US said that its climate approach is grounded in sound economic policy and noted its commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity of its economy by 18% over ten years.
The EU, Switzerland, China and New Zealand supported noting the report.
Artur Runge-Metzger, EU, stressed the need to move from offsetting mechanisms such as the CDM towards programmatic and sectoral mechanisms, and ultimately cap-and-trade in key sectors in major developing economies.
SAUDI ARABIA added adaptation to \t\tresponse measures.
At the SBSTA-13 meeting on Monday, 11 September, the EU emphasized experience sharing and information exchange, identifying opportunities for cooperation, and contributing to the assessment of demonstrable progress.
AILAC suggested this should be discussed in the context of the paragraph in part 1 of the Tool on voting.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and frameworks for implementation.
On further work, Co-Facilitator Kelley Kizzier (EU) proposed, and parties agreed, to hold discussions on technical intersessional work needed, followed by a discussion on conclusions.
The EU emphasized that balance must be struck between mitigation and maintaining economic development, and that focus should be placed on those with the least capacity to deal with negative consequences.
The PHILIPPINES cautioned against derogating the balance within the Convention and said an MCP should be a consultative process and nothing else.
He said that paragraph (4) of his first draft would be retained as is despite the AOSIS amendment.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS proposed that the ADP develop rules relating to accounting assumptions and approaches, land use, and use of international markets and credits, with a view to their adoption by COP 21.
Many countries, including INDIA, underscored: that accounting is key for transparency; the importance of building on existing arrangements; the need for differentiation and flexibility to accommodate the full diversity of NDCs; and the need for common metrics.
SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA said that without credit, industries would be cautious about AIJ.
The UK and US emphasized the identification and evaluation of adaptation options.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the focus not only on vulnerability to impacts of climate change but also on economic vulnerability.
INDIA said all proposals must relate to Convention Article 4.1(c), and opposed harmonization of sectoral standards.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for strengthening institutions on research and systematic observations and further development and implementation of the Global Framework for Climate Services (GFCS).
BRAZIL and NEW ZEALAND cautioned against moving text.
The AFRICAN GROUP said that the proposal was on a way forward, which he characterized as procedural.
BANGLADESH suggested a mechanism to expedite prompt funding for implementating NAPAs.
At the \t\tfinal plenary, Jamaica, for the G-77/China, noted that the group had \t\tgone along with the agreement under great duress, and that it was \t\t 93embarrassed 94 to be part of a decision that sends the wrong signal to \t\tthe global community about Parties 92 commitment to the climate change \t\tprocess.
On examination of proposed new elements, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA and the US, supported clustering items.
The US stated that current modeling remains highly uncertain, and Canada and Australia stressed the importance of data availability.
SWITZERLAND, the EU, Peru, for AILAC, the US, NORWAY and JAPAN supported the suspension option with a specific deadline, with some suggesting 2018.
CANADA, COLOMBIA and the US supported Chair Thorgeirsson 92s suggestion that such reporting activities be undertaken at national level instead.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated the need for the flexibility mechanisms to proceed step-by-step.
CHINA expressed reservations on various criteria that could be used to address the issue of placement.
FRANCE noted that developing country emissions are increasing and called for timely provision of financial support and technology transfer.
BANGLADESH emphasized developed countries’ obligations to reduce GHG emissions.
SAMOA cautioned against making sharp distinctions between enforcement and facilitation.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the need to strike an appropriate balance bearing in mind that the process is party-driven.
The proposal by the US to designate half the members for Annex I Parties and half for non-Annex I Parties would be placed in brackets with a similar footnote denoting that it represents the view expressed by some Parties.
Regarding the review of the financial mechanism, the EU expressed concern with moving forward on the basis of the Chair ef bf bds draft decision and distributed a new proposal.
On the  , Argentina, for the G-77/China, said the TEC should have a mandate on the TCN and set priorities and technical criteria.
TUVALU and BRAZIL highlighted legal implications of a gap for the flexibility mechanisms, in particular the CDM, and other institutional arrangements in the Marrakesh Accords.
With the support of the G-77/China, but opposed by the EU, Japan, and Australia, he supported inserting this item on the agenda.
He emphasized that the Declaration was not adopted and noted that the G-77/CHINA proposal to set “realistic and achievable QELROs in a comprehensive manner" reflects its substance.
MAURITANIA sought clarification regarding suggestions for a UNEP role.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), stressed the need for ambitious mitigation targets by Annex I countries and to avoid compromising sustainable development and the survival of the LDCs.
Discussing the revised outline on Friday, Germany, Luxembourg, France, the UK, Estonia, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Sweden, the EU and others, opposed by Saudi Arabia, objected to deleting reference to the global stocktake.
Highlighting sub-paragraphs 1(b)(i) and 1(b)(ii) of the BAP on mitigation by developed and developing countries, BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, stressed the need for a balanced consideration of issues.
TANZANIA highlighted participation of local communities in REDD.
With the US, EU, CANADA, JAPAN, KUWAIT and AUSTRALIA, the AFRICAN GROUP favored bracketing the new Co-Chairs\' draft entirely.
The LDCs, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the African Group and Bangladesh, emphasized that the special circumstances of African countries and the LDCs are referenced in the Convention and stressed the importance of reflecting this in the text.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, noted the need to address revision of the NWP, transparency and MRV, and the development of standardized baselines.
SERBIA underscored the need to strengthen capacity for BUR preparation, including trainings for specific stakeholders and sectors.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that this session should focus on progressing arrangements under cooperative approaches and further discussing response measures.
The EU noted the IPCC AR4 references to new greenhouse gases that could be included in a future agreement.
The PHILIPPINES noted the need for technical support, climate models, maps and information to implement risk management strategies.
The Alliance of \t\tSmall Island States (AOSIS) was equally concerned about the technical \t\tuncertainties surrounding CCS, such as seepage, storage, boundaries and \t\tlong-term liability.
The US suggested that the SBSTA “take note” of the Revised Guidelines adopted by the IPCC and “decides that they should be used as follows”: Annex I countries should apply them for their 1997 inventories on a voluntary basis and on a mandatory basis for their 1998 inventories.
THAILAND, for the G-77/CHINA, said he looked forward to the second review.
Opposed by TUVALU, the EU recommended recording Tuvalu ef bf bds concerns in the meeting ef bf bds minutes instead of amending the draft conclusions.
He said the US has begun a multi-project activity.
The US proposed addressing loss and damage through COP decisions, adding that she did not foresee that the Warsaw International Mechanism would “sunset.”
The UK and Switzerland noted that there is sufficient talent in developing countries and among non-English speakers to take senior positions.
INDIA called for addressing barriers created by intellectual property rights.
PAKISTAN, ECUADOR and others stressed that progress under the Convention is linked to progress under the Protocol.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged agreement on LULUCF accounting rules, flexible mechanisms, length of commitment period after 2012, transformation of pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives (QELROs), and the basket of gases.
The US supported retaining the specific reference to national programmes because it provided a context for projects.
BRAZIL, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and the EU suggested that the group first address ways to move forward before deciding on substance of discussion.
NEW ZEALAND noted that the host Party would have to cancel some of its assigned amount.
Stressing that the UNFCCC is not an energy convention, SAUDI ARABIA said that the Declaration should be a consensus document prioritizing adaptation to climate impacts and impacts of Annex I response measures.
With MALAYSIA, he underlined the importance of an enabling environment in developed and developing countries, and of using existing mechanisms.
NEW ZEALAND suggested adding that the branch would determine whether "a Party is or is not meeting any requirement under Articles 5.2 (adjustments), 7.1 (inventories) and 7.4 (guidelines for the submission of information) relating to the issuance of assigned amount under Article 3.3 (afforestation, reforestation and deforestation) and 3.4 (additional activities)."
INDIA elaborated on notions of equitable access to sustainable development.
The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC highlighted the proposal to establish a financial mechanism to support projects and programmes in relation to the implementation of Article 6.
BRAZIL highlighted that there are many other elements in the Paris Agreement that will impact this agenda item.
In addition to inviting non-Annex I Parties to benefit from information sharing, SWITZERLAND, with AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported a standing agenda item on P&amp;Ms. SAUDI ARABIA said that discussions should be limited to Annex I Parties.
 In the ensuing discussion, JAPAN suggested that oil producers take measures now to diversify their economic structures.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS stressed the relevance of the Sustainable Development Goals and indicators.
AUSTRALIA supported a Protocol with a full, competitive and transparent emissions trading regime and a CDM regime that includes sinks.
He explained that the idea behind the US proposal for common mitigation frameworks is to enhance communication of information by parties on what actions they are taking.
NEW ZEALAND said the appeal process should be a self-contained system divorced from political considerations and established through Article 19 (dispute settlement).
The AFRICAN GROUP said the workshop was useful in broadening understanding of a possible gap between commitment periods.
TUVALU stressed \t\t\tenvironmental integrity and the US emphasized ongoing actions.
The US proposed adding a \t\t\tstatement on the benefits of moderate climate change for \t\t\tagriculture.
At COP-9, Parties adopted numerous decisions and conclusions on various issues, including: definitions and modalities for including afforestation and reforestation activities under the Clean Development Mechanism; good practice guidance on land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF); the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF); and the Least Developed Countries (LDC) Fund.
BRAZIL said this agenda item should be further discussed during SBI 34.
On adaptation communication, AILAC called for clear guidance to enhance adaptation actions.
Brazil, speaking for the G-77/China, stressed that the draft TOR and work agenda from the workshop served as a basis for negotiation only, and China called for further exchange of views.
The OECD 92s presentation highlighted the common issues and inter-linkages between compliance, eligibility and baselines, free riders, monitoring and review, and domestic systems.
Announcements of US$81 million contributed to the Adaptation Fund, surpassing its fundraising target for 2016, helped, but did not fully placate calls to also close the finance gap and for equal treatment of pre-2020 and post-2020 ambition and action.
The EU identified central elements of a Durban package as: bridging the ambition gap; reaching a middle ground on legal options as a step towards a legally-binding, comprehensive post-2012 framework; operationalizing the Cancun Agreements, including an MRV framework; and establishing a second commitment period under the Kyoto protocol, in the context of a balanced package.
CANADA said the decision-making framework should be based on consistency between the provisions of the Protocol.
According \t\t\tto the SPM, modeling studies show carbon prices between US$20-80 per \t\t\tton of CO2-eq by 2030, and US$30-155 for stabilization at \t\t\taround 550 ppm, but studies taking into account induced \t\t\ttechnological change lower these price ranges.
NEW ZEALAND expressed frustration that the numbers group had spent considerable time discussing carryover of AAUs, which the group deemed necessary for the construction of a second commitment period, but that in the legal matters group, parties refused to discuss textual proposals related to AAUs because the proposals are in option B.
PANAMA stressed the importance of referring to the accounting and conformity functions of cooperative arrangements.
Underscoring the interdependence of adaptation and mitigation ambition, SOUTH AFRICA highlighted gaps between commitments and the demands of science.
MAURITIUS said the BM is precise, and contains a clear direction and mandate.
Drawing attention to the actions listed in \t\tdecision 1/CP.10, the US, supported by Finland, highlighted the need for \t\tprovision of scientific advice.
The EU called for inclusion of further criteria and a guiding principle emphasizing emissions reduction.
The EU, Norway, Belgium and others proposed language reflecting that CO2 remains in the atmosphere for a long time.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION announced its ratification of the CCD.
The UK said the IPCC should mostly be funded by governments and suggested awaiting the results of the letter sent to member states before approaching new donors.
France, on behalf of the EU, asked Dr. Bolin whether substantial reductions in emissions would be necessary and if Annex I countries" actions would be insufficient to prevent greenhouse warming.
AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, invited parties to meet informally to further discuss areas of divergence.
The work programme aims to assist countries, in particular developing countries, including the least developed countries and SIDS, to improve their understanding and assessment of impacts, vulnerability and adaptation, and in making informed decisions on practical adaptation actions and measures to respond to climate change on a sound scientific, technical and socioeconomic basis, taking into account current and future climate change and variability.
PAKISTAN indicated that unsupported mitigation actions are distinct from NAMAs and that efforts could be made to strengthen reporting guidelines.
AUSTRALIA referred to news received “over the wire” that work under the AWG-LCA had been suspended due to actions by the G-77/China and said this meant that work under the AWG-KP also had to be suspended.
INDIA and CHINA proposed deletion of a paragraph that calls on the CG to consider steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the FCCC.
The EU and SWITZERLAND suggested a standing committee, which would report to the COP.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a legally-binding agreement that would sit alongside a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period, stressing that “Cancun must not compromise the future.”
FINLAND highlighted the need to make all \t\tactors aware of climate risks to enable them to prepare for the \t\tconsequences of climate change.
BRAZIL, the EU, TUVALU and CANADA stressed consideration of whether activities are best considered under the CDM or NAMAs.
As a compromise, New Zealand, supported by the US, Brazil and WGII Vice Chair Sergey Semenov, suggested that the general reference to the Paris Agreement was enough to cover the stocktake process.
The \t\tUK, supported by MAURITIUS, NORWAY, CANADA, MOROCCO and others, \t\tunderscored the importance of accepting the 2006 Guidelines and adopting \t\tthe Overview Chapter at this session.
Edward Davey (UK) and Edna Molewa (South Africa) briefed parties on ministerial consultations, noting they had: met with parties on Thursday and produced draft text on this basis; undertaken another consultation process on Friday evening; and based the five draft decision documents on these consultations.
They also called for adopting the necessary amendments at CMP 8 to ensure the entry into force of the Protocol’s second commitment period and its provisional application from January 2013.The Gambia, for LDCs, indicated that Annex I parties who have not confirmed their participation in the second commitment period should not continue participating in the Protcol’s flexibility mechanisms.
Supported by CHINA and MALAYSIA, the PHILIPPINES reiterated his country’s proposal to delete agenda item 4 and reformulate item 3 to “planning of work in accordance with all the elements of Decision 1/CP.17.” He expressed concern over lack of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and attempts to limit the question of ambition to the ADP.
With AOSIS, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, he sought clarification of IPCC terms and definitions of afforestation, reforestation and deforestation.
Referring to support for action, COLOMBIA underlined that focus should not only be on expectations, but also on the way to fulfill them.
Speaking for a number of Latin American countries, ECUADOR said a shared vision should recognize the onus on all parties to step up their efforts, although developed countries must take the lead in mitigating climate change and provide adequate funding and technology transfer.
The US recommended adoption of the Progress Report and Addendum as the first annual report on AIJ, and expressed willingness to host the initial workshop on methodological issues as proposed by the Secretariat.
The US pointed to potential problems related to drafting the Synthesis Report prior to approval of the Working Group reports.
CHINA said the disbursement process should be streamlined and more flexible.
On a draft conclusion on involvement of NGOs (FCCC/SBI/1998/CRP.3), the US, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA, the EU, and CHINA, deleted a request for additional information on the objectives of NGOs.
MEXICO, as the COP/MOP Presidency, identified the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods and said both tracks should be maintained as parties work towards an agreement.
Delegates \t\tagreed to a proposal by AUSTRALIA and NORWAY to replace 93anthropogenic \t\tsources 94 with 93industry and energy related sources.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested the COP/MOP be the appeals body.
This item was first taken up by the SBI in its opening plenary and subsequently addressed in informal consultations throughout the week co-facilitated by Ian Lloyd (US) and Claudia Octaviano (Mexico).
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the US, preferred MRV as a heading for the section, observing that compliance is a cross-cutting issue.
The US said that all possible fora should be used for exploring and furthering convergence of views, and that ideas from those meetings should be brought to the UNFCCC process to facilitate agreement in Copenhagen.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted sensitivity over this because it was known that some Annex I parties want to dispense with the Protocol.
Nauru, for AOSIS, The Gambia, for LDCs, Barbados, Grenada, Switzerland, the EU, the US, Mexico, Singapore, Australia, Japan and Costa Rica urged the adoption of the agenda as originally proposed.
NIGERIA stated that the FCCC cannot use the SAR as a basis for action and called for compensation to African countries for the economic consequences of a protocol.
The US noted confusion about whether the SBSTA should function as clearinghouse, implementation agency or funding source.
In Paragraph 2 on the contribution of relevant organizations, including the IPCC to the work of the SBSTA, the EU suggested adding "scientific aspects of" before "methodologies."
South Africa, for the G-77/China, emphasized the importance of clarity and predictability in the negotiation process, and asked that the reflection note be updated with suggestions that are still missing.
The US said the Paris Agreement, inter alia: “empowers us” to chart a new path forward while preventing the most devastating consequences of climate change, and sends a critical message to the global marketplace, while inspiring technological breakthroughs.
Recognizing that NAMAs vary and are country-driven, the EU said that assumptions considered in the preparation of a NAMA need to be developed by countries individually.
VENEZUELA opposed negotiating a new multilateral regime, said the AWGLCA’s mandate must be clearly defined before discussing modalities, and stressed Annex I parties’ historical responsibility.
The US noted preference for discussing topics on which progress could be made such as cooperative R&amp;D, TNAs, capacity building, enabling environments and regional technology centers.
This was supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, as well as BARBADOS, TUVALU, COSTA RICA, BELIZE, BAHAMAS, SENEGAL, KENYA, SOLOMON ISLANDS, COOK ISLANDS, PALAU and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
The AFRICA GROUP said issues of afforestation, reforestation and the preservation/reclamation of wetlands should feature highly among CDM projects.
The US was also saddened by failure to resolve the TAPs and requested that its proposal also be annexed.
The NETHERLANDS disagreed, arguing that not every P&amp;M aspect is linked to QELROs, and asked for flexibility.
On Scope of Application, CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by ARGENTINA and CHILE, suggested listing the Annex I Parties 92 commitments to which the compliance system would apply, and said issues of compliance with other commitments would be dealt with under the Multilateral Consultative Process.
The US, Norway, Canada and the EU supported broadening the scope of national adaptation planning processes.
AILAC said technical issues must not stop ambition and hoped work would begin at COP 22 on adaptation, mitigation, transparency and the global stocktake.
The US described a proposed conflict of interest policy as a “conceptual misapplication.” Saudi Arabia stressed the need to include social and economic interests in the process.
SOUTH AFRICA supported a best practice clearing house, rapid \t\tvulnerability assessments, and early warning systems.
The EU supported establishing an interim roster of experts to allow for a learning phase on providing specialized technical advice.
AOSIS asked why supporters of differentiation had not pooled their proposals and requested information on how differentiation would work in practice.
The US cautioned against linking discussion on Article 6 to reporting and financing issues.
 The President announced the following nominations: Africa " Mauritania and Zimbabwe; Asia " India and Japan; Eastern Europe " Hungary and the Russian Federation; Latin America and the Caribbean " Antigua and Barbuda and Argentina; Western Europe and Others " Australia and Germany; and AOSIS " Samoa.
Vanuatu, for AOSIS, supported a regional-level mechanism to support national adaptation plans.
MALI endorsed the comments of Senegal and asked if the rules of procedure can be indefinitely extended.
AUSTRALIA sought information from the Secretariat on current support for developing countries in order to identify gaps and needs for future work.
In opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at slow progress in adopting conclusions on the scale of Annex I emission reduction targets.
INDIA characterized the paragraphs as “workable” and stated the review could be a reference tool but should not revise individual adjustments.
Several parties, including Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, Senegal, for LDCs, and INDONESIA stressed the need: to first establish a definition and clarify the purpose of the framework; and for the scope of the approaches to be included under the framework.
On interactions between the press and the IPCC, WGII Co-Chair Christopher Field (US) referred to a newly-launched experiment crafted jointly by the three WG Co-Chairs, whereby a limited number of accredited journalists would be able to cover, under Chatham House rules and subject to specific guidelines, the IPCC Expert Meeting on Geoengineering in June 2011.
UGANDA highlighted three key issues: capacity building; poverty reduction; and the need to develop an action programme for adaptation.
The GAMBIA urged implementation of NAPAs and opposed further planning.
SAUDI ARABIA said the Chairs 92 report should note discussion on compensation and on a comprehensive approach in addressing actions.
 AG-13 Chair Patrick Szell (UK) convened a Panel Presentation and Discussion on MCPs on Tuesday, 9 July.
BRAZIL said that the contact group decided that its work would not be prejudiced by the COP’s decision on guidelines for initial communications on the abatement of emissions.
Noting there is almost zero mitigation potential in energy production due to near 100% deployment of renewable energy, Iceland highlighted the potential for carbon sequestration, including LULUCF, subject to provisions including: joint target setting with other parties; the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol, particularly Article 4 (joint fulfillment of commitments) or similar arrangements; extension of Decision 14/CP.7 (impact of single projects on emissions in the commitment period); and agreement with the EU on joint fulfillment.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a single comprehensive agreement for the post-Kyoto period, and NORWAY said a future agreement should include the necessary 2050 goal and adequate and ambitious collective emission reductions by 2020, with the participation of all countries, except LDCs.
 Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Xiang Gao (China) and Andrew Rakestraw (US).
The EU clarified that they had used capability, responsibility, early action and population as criteria to calculate assigned amounts for individual countries.
CHINA, supported by KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that the purpose of the documents was to facilitate discussion and therefore they should not be used as the basis for negotiation over text.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, inserted language indicating that NDCs can include co-benefits resulting from adaptation and economic diversification.
 The EU, CANADA, and JAPAN, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, supported the exchange of information on, inter alia, methods, models, and assumptions regarding projec ef bf bdtions.
The G-77/CHINA said national communications should be the main source of information to monitor the effectiveness of capacity building.
The EU and SWITZERLAND referred to the transparency framework outputs.
AUSTRALIA and the EU said all the scientific evidence indicates that actions by Annex I countries alone would be insufficient.
POLAND said that economies in transition may have trouble submitting national inventory data by 15 April 1996.
The US presented on the role of reporting and international assessment and review in clarifying emission reduction targets.
EGYPT and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to avoid duplication.
On behalf of the G-77/ CHINA, he proposed text stressing the effective operationalization of the recently established funds and the greater effectiveness of existing funds.
CANADA said that decision guidance should not emphasize any specific adaptation measures as this might prejudge the outcomes of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, said the agreement would recognize differentiation but emphasized the need for a common, collective effort.
INDIA stressed that the problem was not only a matter of different interpretations, and suggested deleting proposals inconsistent with the Convention, with the G-77/CHINA noting that the proposals on common mitigation frameworks create difficulties for progress in other areas.
MALAYSIA suggested accessing GEF funds in this area.
The EU emphasized the importance of the private sector and the carbon markets, while acknowledging the role of public international finance.
The US said it envisioned the compliance system being structured in such a way that a Party would present information on non-compliance to the compliance committee, which would follow-up on the matter.
CANADA, ITALY, the EU, ZIMBABWE, SLOVENIA, the PHILIPPINES and CHILE supported a standing committee.
Emphasizing that e2 80 9ctransparency is not a substitute for legal force e2 80 9d and that a detailed MRV system is being implemented already, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BRAZIL, questioned the need for new rules and called for enhanced methodologies for MRV of support, with BRAZIL calling for using INDCs as a means to MRV support by including MOI.
The EU stressed that any significant changes to the current rules must only be considered for the second commitment period.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for a continued focus on the possible headings of draft text.
Grenada, for AOSIS, welcomed the proposals made in Panama to address the environmental integrity of the Kyoto Protocol, and called for enhanced effects to increase support for adaptation through share of proceeds under the CDM.
The EU emphasized its legislation to ensure the continuity of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) beyond 2012.
AOSIS called for using the practice established for the Kyoto Protocol, whereby observer parties were able to participate fully in discussions, but not in decision-making.
On uncertainties, Canada, the EU and Uruguay supported the Marrakesh Accords.
The EU and JAPAN stated that further discussion on technical aspects should only occur after the completion of IPCC ef bf bds work on good practice.
CHINA noted that the Chair had not mentioned the issue of extending the share of proceeds levy to JI, as raised by parties in plenary.
The EU supported this and highlighted that this solution offers the potential to clean up language in other paragraphs.
On sequestration, CANADA, supported by NORWAY and IRAN, proposed addressing this under project eligibility.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS cautioned that some organizations may be getting ahead of the intergovernmental process.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for flexibility in the adaptation cycle given the need to reflect local and national priorities.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, looked forward to working with the Co-Chairs to meet the tight deadline of 2018.
The US said the IPCC should not be engaged further in GPG as current scientific knowledge is insufficient to develop comprehensive methodologies.
COLOMBIA called for an IPCC special report on consequences at regional and local levels.
SINGAPORE cautioned parties against transforming the workshop into a “proxy for negotiating issues.” COSTA RICA called for updates on the size of the gap and studies on mitigation potential.
The US suggested an additional option to develop a series of decisions based on Decision 1/CP.16 alone and not on Decision 1/CP.13.
Canada, with the support of Japan, Australia and the US, and opposed by the G-77/China and the EU, proposed replacing the existing decision and its associated initiatives with alternative text stating that consideration of demonstrable progress cannot take place until the SBSTA has considered the issue pursuant to the guidelines that may be elaborated under Article 7, given that Articles 2 and 3.2 provide no mandate for P&amp;Ms to be considered in the context of demonstrable progress.
During \t\tdiscussions on draft conclusions, the EU argued that informals should be \t\tclosed to  \t\tnon-parties unless Protocol parties give their consent, while the \t\tUS and Australia considered that Protocol Articles 13.2 and 15.2 \t\testablish the right of UNFCCC parties to participate.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by several members of its group, said it was premature to decide on one option since the mode of adoption depends on the content of the procedures and mechanisms.
CANADA said it was open to the notion of a core set of guidelines for the creation of national registries, noting that one central registry could be problematic.
MALAYSIA recommended that SBSTA prepare a list of adaptation technologies and consider mechanisms to enhance dissemination of experience on adaptation technology.
On Article 10 (voluntary commitments), MEXICO reported that delegates had expressed an interest in cooperating on the issue, but there were no indications that all regional groups are interested in contact group discussions.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, encouraged broad participation in the multilateral assessment, noted the submission of biennial update reports and looked forward to further submissions.
Chile, for AILAC, highlighted: the role of the Talanoa Dialogue in fostering a common understanding on ambition; the need for a system of rules consistent with scientific evidence; and the urgent need for coordination with ICAO on the Carbon Offsetting Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA).
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted the accountability of the financial mechanism to the parties, the requirement to mobilize financial resources, as well as the principle of equity.
The EU suggested focusing on areas with high mitigation potential and good practice examples.
The NETHERLANDS, with the US, stressed the importance of reviewing fact sheets.
On omissions,the G-77/CHINA lamented some group members’ insertions had not been included in the text, stressing these would be raised in the spin-offs.
BRAZIL, with CHINA, NORWAY and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said including experts from the LULUCF group would improve the discussions.
The US wanted to retain it.
He called for strengthening targets to “ensure real mitigation.” The OECD introduced an assessment of the economic implications of current pledges, noting that market-based policy instruments at the national level help address the costs of Annex I emissions reductions and create fiscal opportunities at the domestic level.
On capacity building, the US said paragraphs relating to project specific activities are not applicable to emissions trading and should be removed.
e2 80 9d The US proposed e2 80 9ccontinuing need.
While acknowledging the diversity of developing countries, the EU reiterated the possibility of a single framework covering all developing countries, saying it will be possible to differentiate within that framework.
Following informal consultations facilitated by Jim Penman (UK), on Friday, 13 June, the SBI adopted the draft conclusions on LULUCF and on Article 4.6.
MAURITANIA and the Co-Chairs proposed a draft decision urging Parties to sign and ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU, Norway, Luxembourg and Brazil asked that the bullet point on calculations of emissions and removals not be restricted to non-managed land.
Saying he preferred the first option, the AFRICAN GROUP requested amending the draft conclusions to reflect that it is the APA Co-Chairs’ proposals, rather than the “outcome of work,” which are being forwarded to the COP, and that this is without prejudice to the content and form of the final outcome of the PAWP.
VENEZUELA stressed that the text on paragraph 1(b)(v) of the Bali Action Plan (market and non-market approaches) had been rejected by many developing countries during informal consultations, and objected to presenting the text as the basis for further negotiations.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said reaching an agreed outcome on all pillars of the BAP was a precondition for terminating the AWG-LCA, and noted pending issues related to, inter alia, long-term finance and shared vision.
COSTA RICA urged looking at other relevant processes such as the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, AUSTRALIA suggested welcoming "significant" progress in the implementation of 5/CP.7.
Switzerland, for the EIG, warned against attempts “to revisit everything,” raise “artificially high” expectations and focus on “things that divide us.” JAPAN lamented lack of recognition by developing countries of progress on finance, including fast-track finance and the establishment of the Standing Committee.
In addition, AOSIS proposed that Parties submit further views prior to COP-9.
MEXICO underlined her proposal for a funding scheme for both mitigation and adaptation.
 CHINA, supported by the EU, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, welcomed the document and requested more time for its consideration.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, appealed to Annex II parties to increase their contributions to the LDC Fund (LDCF), stressing that the LDCF is expected to support other elements of the LDC work programme in addition to the preparation and implementation of NAPAs.
VENEZUELA observed that action on technology transfer and finance by Annex I countries had been unsatisfactory and called on the COP to address compliance under the UNFCCC and the Marrakesh Accords.
Vice-Chair Dovland then requested an update from the informal group working to consolidate the options from Australia, the EU, and Brazil under guidelines for national reporting.
On inviting Annex I parties to submit information on their expected use of LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms in the next commitment period, the PHILIPPINES requested also including text on the share of domestic reductions.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said it would announce its mid-term target next year, and, with INDIA and MEXICO, called for incentive-based sectoral approaches.QATAR supported sectoral approaches in principle but highlighted concerns such as lack of relevant expertise in most developing countries.
The EU, with the US, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed using the input document as the basis for further discussions, saying many of its elements are outside the mandate of workstream 2.
Turning to paragraph-by-paragraph negotiations, some parties proposed addressing differentiation on capacity building by singling out specific party groups, such as LDCs and SIDS.
On the expedited procedure for the mechanisms, NEW ZEALAND, opposed by SAMOA, suggested that its link to the appeal makes it credible.
CANADA expressed reservations on the issue and opposed the draft decision tabled by Iceland at COP-4 in its current form.
NEPAL, TIMOR-LESTE, BURKINA FASO and SIERRA LEONE stressed the need to extend the LEG’s mandate and MALAWI called for abolishing the co-financing requirement for NAPA projects.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA added that the Protocol principles should be reflected in the design of the compliance system itself.
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for progress from developed countries on converting pledges to economy-wide emission reduction targets and, with the Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern over the lack of clear projections for mid-term financing.
Zambia, for the LDCs, opposed.
TUVALU, for the LDCs, called for parallel cycles for mitigation and means of implementation.
The EU sought a reference to variations of a compliance fund both under the true-up period and the outcomes.
The US and Australia supported the need for a reserve fund, but Japan and the Russian Federation expressed concern over the amount.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said baselines are the only practical criteria for screening business-as-usual projects.
On project eligibility, the US stressed the need for a comprehensive approach to certification and verification, including options for baselines.
Several Parties stressed streamlining the GEF project cycle and operationalizing the Special Climate Change and LDC Funds.
On long-term financing he said, inter alia, that US$100 billion per year by 2020 would be required with at least 50% earmarked for the LDCs and SIDS, and that Africa’s share should be administered by the African Development Bank.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed that the public sector in developed countries should be the main source of financing.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for developing indicative milestones for upcoming sessions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said progress was “mixed” across thematic areas and asked that lost time be made up with a spirit of urgency.
Mexico, for the EIG, stated that the context of the conclusion of the work of the AWG-KP will be the conclusion of the work of the AWG-LCA and meaningful progress under the ADP.
On the frequency of reporting for Annex I parties, BOLIVIA suggested submissions every two years.
The US, MEXICO and GEORGIA supported the proposal.
Dominica, on behalf of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America (ALBA), said the Paris Agreement’s message of “life and hope” has been postponed as vulnerable countries receive few financial, technological, or capacity building benefits.
 THAILAND stated that capacity building for the preparation of national communications is urgently needed, and stressed that the AGBM should impose no new commitments on developing countries.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, said one of the key benchmarks for a shared vision should be that it minimizes the vulnerability of developing countries, LDCs and SIDS.
SAUDI ARABIA said that all the obligations under the Protocol, not just commitments under Article 3.1, should be covered.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, BRAZIL, NORWAY and EGYPT supported a single base year of 1990.
AUSTRALIA suggested broadening the scope of mechanisms, especially in relation to sinks, CCS and afforestation and reforestation.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted a willingness to work on the basis of the Chair’s note, but highlighted that key elements from the August negotiating text had been lost, particularly on a shared vision, mitigation, finance and capacity building.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for a legally-binding agreement prioritizing adaptation and scaling up financing.
The Bahamas, for CARICOM, supported a protocol with sections on, inter alia: general principles, including and anchoring institutions; commitments and obligations; communication of information related to implementation; compliance; a dispute settlement mechanism; and financial mechanism.
Following informal consultations co-chaired by Terry Carrington (UK) and Philip Gwage (Uganda), Parties adopted draft conclusions in the SBSTA Plenary on Thursday, 13 June.
WWF SOUTH PACIFIC underscored the "devastating" effects of climate change on SIDS.
NORWAY and the US suggested, and the G-77/CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA opposed, moving to conceptual discussions.
The EU supported a work programme to clarify pledges with thematic discussions under the SBSTA.
ICELAND, NORWAY and FINLAND pointed \t\tto the Arctic assessment of climate change, which shows that the Arctic \t\tclimate is warming rapidly.
 On the electricity trade, the US noted inconsistencies in reporting on imports and exports due to ad hoc adjustments, and called for emissions accounting where generated.
SAUDI ARABIA argued that the agenda can only be adopted by an elected officer and questioned how the ADP can begin work when it does not have an elected Chair.
The US called for policies encouraging private investment in sustainable land management.
On a paragraph acknowledging the support being provided to developing countries for the preparation of INDCs, and the need for such support to be further enhanced, the African Group, opposed by the US, preferred “some developing countries.” The US proposed “continuing need.” The LDCs noted that some developing countries have not received any support and requested deleting “to be further enhanced.”
GUYANA said the new Funds should be made operational.
UKRAINE raised concerns that the Russian Federation included data on the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in its communication, and requested the UNFCCC not to consider this data.
BANGLADESH supported the AOSIS protocol with the German elements paper as the basis of the exchange of views.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, MALAYSIA and the AFRICAN GROUP urged for a limited number of additional groups, given the constraints facing small delegations.
The EU said paragraph 2 should use IPCC language, but he endorsed including a list.
QATAR noted that oil is a commodity that will be depleted and said revenues should be strategically invested to ensure future welfare.
The EU \t\tnoted its pledge of voluntary financial resources to support the EGTT \t\t2005 programme of work, and proposed that Parties request that the EGTT \t\tsuggests a way forward on public and/or private partnerships, \t\tcooperation with relevant conventions, and medium- and long-term \t\tplanning for the EGTT.
The US said adequacy and review of national communications were the responsibility of the SBI, and that the SBSTA should develop guidelines for national communications.
Supported by ARGENTINA, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, JAPAN, ETHIOPIA and MEXICO, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CANADA also proposed deleting a paragraph stating that NAMAs shall not include technologies that have adverse impacts on the environment, such as nuclear power and large-scale hydropower.
The EU outlined means to enhance cooperation, including: building climate technology centers; creating new, technology-oriented agreements and enhancing current ones; and focusing on specific technologies and barriers to their deployment.
On the impact of single projects on emissions in the commitment period, ICELAND said single projects have a greater proportional impact on emissions in smaller countries, affecting their ability to meet emissions targets.
  AWG-LCA Vice-Chair Cutajar opened the session ARGENTINA described various low- and no-cost adaptation options, such as knowledge sharing and global or regional information clearing houses.
The US said JI has enormous potential to improve flows of environmentally sound technologies between countries and provide cost-effective ways of reduce global emissions.
CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested a footnote indicating their position.
The US supported participation through new approaches, including a constituency system.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said AWG-KP 13 had reconfirmed that environmental integrity is critical for pending issues such as carryover of AAUs and LULUCF accounting.
On their pledge to reduce emissions by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020, NORWAY noted that LULUCF comprises between 3-6% of their target but that certain changes in the LULUCF accounting rules are necessary to achieve this.
The US cautioned against postponing substantive discussion until the proposed questionnaire was completed.
TURKEY cited its GDP per capita, anthropogenic emissions per capita and unit of territory and levels of production and consumption of energy per capita.
The EU commended the “constructive spirit of compromise,” urged further progress on mitigation and identified the need for a legally-binding outcome under both tracks.
SAUDI ARABIA recalled that two sets of opinions were included in the SBSTA report on key findings.
CANADA specified that the outcomes of the facilitative branch would not be limited to outcomes of a non-mandatory nature.
France, on behalf of the EU, suggested that UNEP and UNITAR administer and fund the programmes with oversight by the Secretariat.
CANADA proposed deleting the reference or including all of paragraph 2(b) of the Berlin Mandate.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored the need to increase resources to fight climate change, provide funding for implementation of development plans and develop direct and simplified access to finance, especially for small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and ICELAND, but opposed by BOLIVIA and BRAZIL, suggested having more time dedicated to discussing the overlap between LULUCF and the numbers, and proposed a joint session of the numbers and LULUCF groups.
AUSTRALIA and others opposed this, stressing resource implications and the Party 92s responsibility to provide information.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the SBSTA should receive the information, acknowledge receipt and pass on the report to the COP.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that decisions should: lock-in achievements to date; outline pathways for further progress; and galvanize immediate action by implementing the Copenhagen Accord.
The US said the table language should stand the test of \t\t\ttime.
 VENEZUELA is making every effort to complete its national communication prior to the deadline, even though it is developing country experiencing a profound economic crisis.
In addition in March 2001, the US declared its opposition to the Protocol, stating that it believed it to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempted developing countries from fully participating.
Regarding a proposal that the Secretariat’s technical paper be reported to the SBSTA and that discussions continue in that body, BRAZIL and INDIA opposed merging AWG-LCA and SBSTA work.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, reiterated concern with the slow progress towards a second commitment period, emphasizing the need to reduce the gap between pledges and what is required by science and historical responsibility.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for an AWG-LCA outcome in Doha to be in line with the Bali Action Plan and decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
PANAMA \t\tnoted concerns on the proposal to finance the Board through CDM \t\tproceeds, and endorsed the idea of sectoral CDM.
Richard Bradley (US) will conduct consultations on draft SBSTA conclusions and a draft COP decision.
The conclusions note that the Asian Group, the Latin American and Caribbean Group and the Group of Western European and Other States (WEOG) were not yet able to present their candidates for the COP-2 Bureau.
The EU asked who would develop the reference manual.
CHINA, UGANDA, BRAZIL, INDIA and ARGENTINA supported establishment of a contact group to discuss methodological issues and guidance of ICAO and IMO.
One of the reasons is the position shared by most developed countries that a simple continuation of the Protocol will not be an acceptable outcome in Copenhagen, and what is needed is a comprehensive international agreement involving the US and key developing countries in mitigation efforts.
 \t\tSWITZERLAND, with the EU, called for a 93desk review 94 of non-Annex I \t\tcommunications and, supported by AOSIS, suggested grouping countries \t\twith common circumstances for such a review.
The G-77/CHINA requested, inter alia, that this issue be made a regular agenda item, and that SBSTA consider a draft decision on initial actions.
BARBADOS proposed an additional mid-term period of fast-start finance like commitments.
On including  , Saudi Arabia, Japan, Nigeria, Kuwait, Iran, the EU, New Zealand, Ghana and others supported retaining the option, while AOSIS, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Gambia and others preferred no decision.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that all 15 EU members have completed their national communications, and that three have undergone in-depth reviews.
On the pre-2020 period, he stressed that developed countries must meet their commitments and define a clear roadmap to achieving the US$100 billion goal.
Argentina, the EU, Norway and others supported controlling maritime and aviation emissions under the UNFCCC, while Singapore and other preferred addressing them through the IMO and ICAO.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the group would work as hard and constructively as possible to conclude comprehensive and robust guidance for the Paris Agreement.
NEW ZEALAND called for reviewing lessons learned from market failures.
SAMOA also noted the need to avoid duplication of tasks, but expressed concern that existing subsidiary bodies may not be appropriately equipped to address technical issues.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that the US presentation shifts the focus from the AGBM process.
Nepal, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), urged allocating sufficient time for workshops and roundtables, and supported the establishment of two contact groups for the two workstreams.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed disappointment, noting that the text is “unbalanced,” failing to reflect the main elements of the Bali Action Plan.
CANADA said that Parties should be free to raise their own implementation issues.
The G-77/CHINA urged the GEF to improve the efficiency of its funding process.
JAPAN, supported by the US, recalled that the GEF was the vehicle for this funding.
The G-77/CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA said a discussion on which language should be included in decisions is beyond the group e2 80 99s mandate.
COLOMBIA said the 1989 baseline could impede projects.
TURKEY noted that questions remain unanswered on the Protocol’s proposed Article 10 and requested that ministers discuss the matter on 10 December.
ZIMBABWE stressed the need for appropriate technologies for developing countries and the need for the SBI to consider the inputs of Southern NGOs to the NGO workshop.
MEXICO, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by COLOMBIA, introduced the proposed amendment to Articles 7 and 18 of the Convention, underlining the need for clarity on how to proceed in case of lack of consensus.
Delegates discussed the Least Developed Country (LDC) Fund without reaching agreement.
CANADA requested further time to discuss potential consequences.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, supported by Bangladesh, noted the need for predictability and sustainability of financing for the implementation of adaptation projects.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that adaptation actions in developing countries must be supported by developed countries in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
NEW ZEALAND noted that accounting rules must be more explicitly addressed in Section D, and, with NORWAY, stressed the importance of avoiding double-counting.
The UMBRELLA GROUP highlighted the need to move to full negotiation mode and discuss legal issues in 2009.
The US called for all Parties to submit national communications every 3-5 years, and for all Parties, with the exception of LDCs and those highly vulnerable to climate change, to submit greenhouse gas inventories every two years.
Bolivia, for ALBA, stressed that developed country commitments cannot be conditioned on markets and the flexibility mechanisms, eluding historical responsibility.
Stressing the need for improved outreach in his region, IRAN, supported by AFGHANISTAN, proposed that the IPCC hold workshops focusing on Asia and the Middle East.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said examination of the term "developing countries" was not necessary.
The EU emphasized that the full costs of offsetting through flexibility mechanisms was covered by developed countries.
AUSTRALIA said that the tables are “highly hypothetical and do not reflect the views of parties.” Co-Chair Charles explained that the tables were introduced by the Secretariat for illustration purposes and have not been subject to intensive scrutiny by parties.
The US called for focusing on operational language rather than on expectations.
Lamenting that mitigation and adaptation have not been treated equally due to the lack of a specific adaptation body under the UNFCCC, CHINA supported the creation of an adaptation committee that, inter alia: assesses adaptation needs of developing countries; formulates guidance; develops technical criteria; and facilitates the implementation of programmes.
BRAZIL stressed the need for preparatory discussions before the AWGLCA begins negotiations on a “shared vision,” and the EU proposed a workshop, a roundtable and a high-level discussion on the issue.
SLOVAKIA reported that its emissions decreased by 40% below 1990 levels excluding LULUCF and were driven by air quality legislation.
On Wednesday, 3 December, many developing countries continued to call for showing their proposals on the screen, while the US preferred to continue with a more general reading of the text to identify “the major issues in the negotiations.” Tuvalu suggested, and parties agreed to, establishing a Friends of the Chair group to reach agreement on the way forward.
She agreed to take the lead on informal consultations with Brazil and the EU to look for ways to resolve the issue.
 In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the Protocol, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempt developing countries from emission targets.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS registered its reservation on attempts by international financial institutions and the financial mechanism to influence what should be government decisions.
The US noted ongoing discussions under the COP on the linkage between the financial and technology mechanisms.
The UK questioned the assumption that implementing climate change policies in Annex B Parties necessarily leads to reduced economic growth.
  The SBI first considered this issue on 2 December, when the Chair of the LDC Expert Group (LEG) delivered a report on the 14th meeting of the LEG (FCCC/SBI/2008/14).
On structuring technical work, CANADA called for a contact group to start work at COP 22 and for a technical paper by the Secretariat on available information.
Maldives, for AOSIS, also expressed concern over the pace of work.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed that the Protocol has established the institutional and governance structures that “are and must remain at the heart of the climate regime.” Australia, for the Umbrella Group and Belarus, stressed the need to improve understanding and increase the transparency of all mitigation commitments in the Copenhagen Accord and urged working in tandem with the AWG-LCA.
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL MATTERS: On income and budget performance in the biennium 1998-1999 and arrangements for administrative support to the FCCC, the EU proposed an open-ended group to clarify some issues.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, with Barbados for the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and many others, stressed a below 1.5 c2 b0C goal as critical.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA described their proposal for NAMA crediting, noting that any reductions beyond business-as-usual would be eligible and that, since NAMAs are initiated by developing countries themselves, these countries would not have to wait for investments as in the CDM.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, NORWAY and others supported making the tables widely available.
He identified the CDM as a good \t\texample of North-South cooperation, stressed that recent fluctuations in \t\tcarbon markets will not affect the market 92s importance and viability, \t\tand emphasized the European Union 92s (EU) goal of restricting climate \t\tchange to 2o Celsius \t\tor less.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to consider the “full gamut” of action on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), underscored the importance of negotiations on Paris Agreement Article 6 and that the Nairobi Work Programme (NWP) should be enhanced.
Stressing the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, INDIA supported discussing this issue under the UNFCCC.
COLOMBIA reiterated building on existing technology transfer frameworks.
GHANA proposed requesting that SBSTA establish a programme for CCS as a mitigation technology and activity.
JAPAN stated that text on a shared vision should be part of the agreement and AUSTRALIA called for a message that is both inspirational and operational.
Five party submissions (FCCC/AWGLCA/2010/MISC.6/Add.1) on the fund and an oversight body were submitted from Bangladesh, the EU, the LDCs, the G-77/China, and the US.
NORWAY responded that the structure of the CDM would influence the volume of CDM projects.
The EU and UZBEKISTAN sought Global Environment Facility (GEF) resources to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their observational work.
  On this issue (FCCC/SBI/2011/MISC.2 and FCCC/TP/2011/3), BOLIVIA expressed support for introducing an appeals procedure in the CDM project approval process.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need for the contact group to produce an unambiguous text that could be adopted by the COP.
JAPAN introduced draft COP-7 decision text on its proposal on review for reinstatement of eligibility, requesting SBSTA to take further action.
ECUADOR, with SYRIA, SUDAN, CHILE, SIERRA LEONE and EL SALVADOR, drew attention to the linkages between climate change impacts and water.
The PHILIPPINES called for information on technology transfer activities in Annex-I communications.
On the timetable, the G-77/CHINA stressed that discussions on each element require more time than the proposed 90 minutes.
INDONESIA, SWITZERLAND and others supported this, calling for initial discussion on what will be financed, though BRAZIL noted the likely complexity of considering rules of eligibility.
The EU, NORWAY, DENMARK, COLOMBIA and ENVIRONMENTAL NGOs stressed links to other conventions, including those on biodiversity and desertification.
On Working Group structure and mandates, Russia, Australia, China, France, Hungary, the US, Sudan and others supported the current structure.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, supported making recommendations to the Financial Mechanism to support implementation.
On developing country mitigation, the US proposed bracketing the entire section and inserting words “option one.” He called for inserting “option two” consisting of “alternatives suggested by parties,” and highlighted that this gives a “clear sense of different ways to think about this problem” and the need for “fundamental revisions.”
  Presentations during this session covered: the African Group renewable energy proposal under the Durban Platform negotiations; IRENA e2 80 99s SIDS Lighthouses Initiative; the European Investment Bank Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund; and the Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century.
IPCC Chair Lee suggested a small group, including the US, Brazil, the UK, Germany, Zambia and other interested members, to meet with IPCC Vice-Chair Sokona to revise the draft decision.
Marshall Islands and AOSIS requested that consensus on political considerations be the focus of the Bonn sessions.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC said that the socio-economic impacts of climate change on developing countries need to be addressed.
 JORDAN expressed concern over the conclusions of the SAR, particularly as it addresses developing country impacts.
The US said the experts should work on guidelines for developing such approaches.
The UK expressed concern over the possibility that a Party could take advantage of an internal appeal process to expand the compliance process.
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and others underscored \t\tlinkages between Articles 3.9 and 9.
TURKEY announced its accession to the UNFCCC.
On Tuesday, 29 October, the SBI, noting that the CACAM can access GEF funding, adopted conclusions.
The EU, ICELAND, SWITZERLAND, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a single base year of 1990, with multiple reference points that could be used for communication or policy purposes.
 On Friday, 25 October, Canada introduced draft decision text supported by New Zealand, Poland, the Russian Federation and Slovenia, and opposed by G-77/ China, Switzerland, and the US.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, JAPAN preferred removing reference to "further" financial and technical support for enhancing national capacities.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION explained that its communication serves the implementation of its obligations under the UNFCCC.
The progress report on AIJ includes submissions by Australia, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands (including a joint report with Hungary), Norway (including a joint report with Mexico), and the US, for a total of 32 ongoing or planned projects.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed political and generational responsibility to reach an agreement in Copenhagen.
The EU, NORWAY and the US suggested ways of consolidating and tightening the text.
TUVALU urged that the issue must not be “swept under the carpet” and stressed that the legal context under this agenda item is based on Protocol Article 20 (amendments) and is therefore different from the work by the AWG-KP under Protocol Article 3.9 (Annex I further commitments).
INDONESIA and GHANA highlighted technology \t\ttransfer and sustainable funding to promote new technologies.
He noted positive consequences for developing countries of measures, such as the EU sustainability criteria for biofuels and carbon dioxide performance standards for cars.
He also noted that the EU decision illustrates how differentiation facilitates more ambitious targets.
On further work for the APA, Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested noting that the APA will require additional time for work in 2017.
On the mandate of the facilitation branch, the EU, with the US, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said cases should be dealt with on their merits and not on the basis of the Party involved.
Tajikistan, for the Mountainous Landlocked Developing Countries, Egypt, for the Arab Group, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, Venezuela, for ALBA, Tuvalu, the Philippines, Chile, Kuwait, Bolivia, Malawi, China, India, Singapore and Saudi Arabia supported the agenda proposed by the G-77/China, saying it is organized, inclusive and relevant to both the BAP and the Cancun Agreements, focused and future-looking.
Proposals from the PHILIPPINES, NORWAY, Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), and Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), referenced human rights and gender equality.
OPEC highlighted the impacts of climate change response measures on economies that are highly dependent on fossil fuel exports.
The EU noted that the interim operating entity is functioning effectively and that the GEF will be a “cross-point” for the flow of technology.
Many parties supported mandating technical workshops or papers, opposed by others, including Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, who noted technical work would be premature.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested postponing the formation of drafting groups.
The EU underscored its €650,000 additional contribution to the EGTT in 2008.
On unilateral CDM, NEW ZEALAND noted that additionality would require careful judgments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the importance of issues including implementing the headquarters agreement and budgetary austerity, and looked forward to discussing national communications and inventories under the AWG-LCA.
MEXICO proposed that if every effort toward consensus is exhausted, decisions can be made by a two-thirds majority vote of parties present and voting, except in the case of issues related to finance, which would require a consensus, and procedural issues, which would require a majority.
CHINA said he interpreted the US and AUSTRALIA proposals as an attempt to exact commitments from developing countries.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, supported the Philippines and added that this should not be reopened for discussion by the SBSTA.
The following summary provides a synthesis of compliance negotiations, focusing on the most controversial issues delegates had to face: the COP decision and the elements of the package deal struck between the EU and the Umbrella Group.
The LDCs, with BRAZIL, CHINA, the ARAB GROUP, the AFRICAN GROUP and the LMDCs, emphasized that presentation of INDCs by developing countries is contingent on support.
PAKISTAN said unilateral actions should not be confused with NAMAs, which should remain loyal to the definition in the BAP.
The EU said text should reflect that all parties will eventually take quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets.
The US said the workshops enhanced transparency and suggested the workshop report be forwarded to the AWG-LCA.
JAPAN urged for a comprehensive post-2012 legal framework, and said the non-paper is too narrow, while SOUTH AFRICA welcomed it as being close to the mandate.
The G-77/CHINA suggested deferring AIJ until after the pilot phase designated at COP-1.
On the nature of future activities, Canada, the US and Japan, opposed by the EU, proposed reference to "future work" rather than a "consultative process."
Parties agreed to commence work on other agenda items, while holding in abeyance the proposed new agenda items on water resources, blue carbon, agriculture, and the rights of nature and ecosystems, pending the outcome of further informal consultations facilitated by Zitouni Ould-Dada (UK).
Many also expressed support for the SAR and made specific comments, including the US, CANADA, ARGENTINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, BANGLADESH, NORWAY, FIJI, URUGUAY, MAURITIUS, JAPAN, BENIN, MYANMAR, BULGARIA and GREENPEACE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the US said adaptation and mitigation could be considered as separate agenda items.
The authors, with Norway, the UK, Chile, Slovenia, Belgium, Germany, and others, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed using a sentence from the WGI SPM instead, stating that e2 80 9cwarming will continue beyond 2100 in all RCP scenarios except RCP2.6.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for protecting environmental integrity and human rights, and support for developing countries to implement their NDCs.
The EU and \t\tCanada said the proposal deserved further consideration at COP/MOP \t\t2, \t\twhile the G-77/China firmly opposed further discussion.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the first set of conclusions highlighted in the SBSTA report best capture the weight of the science and the urgency for action.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, TUVALU and NORWAY, and opposed by JAPAN, said natural uptake must be separated from human-induced effects.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported discussion on integrating existing market mechanisms and creating new ones.
UNITED ARAB \t\t\tEMIRATES emphasized that directing financial and technology \t\t\tincentives to countries with voluntary commitments would be a \t\t\t“fundamental change.” The EU noted the Convention Dialogue as a \t\t\tforum for discussing some of these issues.
ARGENTINA called for referencing, in the preamble, the relationship between food production and consumption, economic development and sustainability.
The US suggested the recommendation would be better oriented toward the COP.
Cautioning against “cherry picking” from other documents, CHINA urged focusing on the current state of negotiations.
SAUDI ARABIA said that mitigation and adaptation measures must not lead to new commitments for developing countries.
AILAC and BANGLADESH emphasized building on the current MRV systems, with AILAC pointing to the rules under the Kyoto Protocol, taking into account diverse contexts and capacities, and suggesting MRV be used as a trigger for the compliance mechanism.
MALAYSIA expressed concern about the proliferation of funds outside the Convention and INDIA said financing should be in the form of grants.
With the G-77/CHINA and opposed by the EU, JAPAN, and AUSTRALIA, he supported inserting this agenda item.
SWITZERLAND noted that the IPCC works on several \t\tlevels in terms of scientific and governmental representation and \t\thighlighted the mobility of the scientific community.
 \t\t\tOn “agreement,” China, US and others noted the need to express that \t\t\tthe agreement is in the published literature and not among experts.
Katherine Vaughn (Australia) and Rence Sore (Solomon Islands) will co-chair a contact group on the LDC Fund.
The EU suggested making concrete progress on areas where convergence exists to build trust before addressing areas of divergence.
The EU made a presentation showing the impact on all Annex I countries’ emissions of using: the existing LULUCF rules, under which most parties would receive mostly non-additional credits and which would provide "no real incentive to take additional action"; the discount rates option, under which parties would get non-additional credits of similar magnitude to the current rules, with minor incentives to take additional action; the reference levels option, under which most countries would get zero crediting for business-as-usual, depending on the reference level chosen; and a historical reference year set at 1990, under which some countries would get large credits or debits, arbitrarily distributed, mostly relating to forest management.
PARAGUAY highlighted its interest in the potential of the flexibility mechanisms.
Opposing Canada 92s SBSTA-16 proposal to change the baseline from 1989, the EU stressed its support for definitions set out in the Marrakesh Accords.
TURKEY said it had presented the FCCC to Parliament for ratification.
The US and JAPAN welcomed the proposal for two drafting groups.
The EU welcomed the Secretariat\'s document (FCCC/SBI/1998/CRP.1), and noted, on the paper\'s analytical framework, that there was an overstatement of the certainty of information on adaptation.
BRAZIL agreed with the need for structural changes in the economy and for low-carbon investment choices, but underscored that developed countries need to take the lead.
AUSTRALIA called for the review process to account for factors such as those considered in setting commitments, new scientific information and changes in circumstances.
AOSIS said it would be useful to jump into full discussions and asked Annex I parties for their responses to the questions on pre-conditions and how they could be met before Durban.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the SBSTA could request the IPCC to evaluate impacts and global warming potentials.
The G-77/CHINA and some Annex I Parties agreed to meet separately to seek consensus on this text.
NEW ZEALAND noted that pledges will not simply be translated into QELROs, but that QELROs will have to be negotiated at the higher political level.
The US called for a discussion on timeframes, and made a specific proposal in this regard.
The EU said progress had been far too slow, noting that substantive discussions had only just begun and only in some areas.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that the final report of the GEF was still being awaited, to allow full consideration of items under the agenda item, which is closely related to the provision of financial resources.
 ICELAND proposed differentiation and the following parameters for identifying differences in national circumstances: GHG emission intensity and level, share of renewable energy sources and GDP per capita.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed concern with some parties questioning the validity of the Convention after 20 years and “reinterpreting” certain terms.
The EU underlined the need for innovative ways of financing, and for detailed proposals on a framework for technology transfer.
The EU supported establishing a single AWG-LCA contact group and producing a Chair’s text by the June session.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the EU, Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, Switzerland, for the EIG, and Malawi, for the LDCs, commended the work and role of the Adaptation Fund in supporting adaptation efforts in developing countries, with the G-77/CHINA also appreciating the Fund’s “innovativeness” in the area of access modalities.
Many members, including Canada, Republic of Korea, Norway, Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico, the US and others suggested further consideration of these proposals in light of the AR6 scoping process.
The LMDCs, JAPAN and VIET NAM proposed inviting the Chairs of the subsidiary and constituted bodies to report to the APA.
SWITZERLAND proposed, inter alia, to hold \t\tthree AWG sessions in 2007 with specific focal areas, and to finalize \t\tthe analytical phase at COP/MOP 3.
MEXICO proposed a fund to finance mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer, with contributions from all parties based on greenhouse gas emissions, population and GDP.
COLOMBIA called for also reflecting other vulnerable countries.
BRAZIL highlighted concerns relating to long-term permanence and host-country liabilities.
AUSTRALIA welcomed the innovative solutions and best practices showcased.
 On scope and key issues, the EU, with COLOMBIA, proposed working on modalities, procedures and guidance of the committee.
The AFRICAN GROUP proposed spin-off groups to improve the text and urged separate chapters on mitigation and on capacity building.
 JAPAN said developed countries must take the lead on implementation, inventories and communications.
PERU stressed the lack of adaptation and vulnerability research.
TUVALU agreed that such discussions would be useful but stressed the need to retain the Protocol.
During the COP closing plenary, the US asked to reflect in the meeting’s report that it accepted this text “to the extent that it is not read in a matter that is inconsistent with the Convention or the Cancun agreements.”
The US advocated a focus on operational elements of the text, acknowledging that some elements would have to be resolved after Copenhagen.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to ensure that the GCF continues to serve all developing countries in the Convention.
 : CHINA, BRAZIL, and BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, said an increase in emissions from some Annex B countries should be reflected in the conclusions.
NEW ZEALAND noted the need for consistency with Decision 9/CP.4 (LULUCF), and stated that the distinction between Article 3.3 and 3.4 is becoming blurred.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said market mechanisms must be considered comprehensively without singling out any particular mechanism.
 The US disagreed with the G-77 and China, regarding the "equal footing" for the panels.
With the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, she said that the disbursement of funds should be science-based and should not be counted towards ODA.
The EU welcomed progress made, and reiterated their preference for a single legally-binding framework containing the essential elements identified in the Cancun Agreements as a means to reach a balanced and ambitious outcome.
Japan highlighted \t\ta workshop for CDM Designated National Authorities (DNAs) and the EU \t\tdrew attention to the informal DNA Forum held recently in Bonn.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR stressed references to Mother Earth.
 The PHILIPPINES said it was not the G-77/China that blocked establishment of the TAPs.
The Least Developed Countries (LDCs), the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), the Republic of Korea, Japan and others supported retaining text on  , while the EU preferred taking no decision, highlighting alternative ways to address regional distribution of the CDM.
AUSTRALIA said the issues settled at Kyoto should not be re-opened.
The US said that no single method would be universally applicable and called on the SBSTA to avoid duplicating efforts, in particular with the IPCC.
ICELAND called for vision, leadership and partnership, and for engaging the business community.
SWITZERLAND underlined the need for additional analytical work on sectoral approaches.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA called for “straightforward and honest” LULUCF rules that account for all sources and sinks, and for the use of reference levels that ensure that business as usual scenarios are not credited.
The EU noted that parties agreed, in light of the exceptional circumstances of COP 21, to focus on streamlining a decision.
On benefits and costs of climate \t\t\tchange, the US suggested changing the range of temperature increase \t\t\tfrom 93less than 2 b0C 94 to 1-3 b0C.
As the meeting resumed, the G-77/CHINA, BELIZE, CANADA, the US, the EU and others, welcomed the new text as the basis for further work.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for focusing on how actions would be implemented and opposed consideration of proposals inconsistent with the Convention.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with language requiring all parties, in accordance with respective capabilities, to report on policies concerning mobilizing public and private financial resources.
The EU and Australia also underlined the importance of addressing LULUCF.
The second outlined the Commission’s proposal \t\t\tto include aviation emissions in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
CHINA said the AWG should be prioritized.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged the Board to facilitate greater participation in the CDM by underrepresented countries, including by operationalizing the loan scheme.
NORWAY asked if the proposed MTAF would meet the need of LDCs and SIDS or whether they would need additional measures.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a “comprehensive and durable” outcome in Copenhagen and identified the need for coherence between the AWGs.
CROATIA noted the proposal for its forest cap and suggested that the issue be deferred pending the outcome of negotiations in the SBSTA.
IRAN stressed the need for a section on general commitments and guiding measures in the protocol.
The EU pointed to its long-term strategy to become climate neutral by 2050 and said all finance flows must be aligned with the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement.
The US supported more emphasis on improving and scaling-up technology, and market penetration.
On INDCs, the EU proposed a placeholder for updating commitments before entry into force and suggested text to ensure no backsliding.
MICRONESIA called on developed countries to meet their UNFCCC commitments relating to financing adaptation projects in SIDS.
The US and AUSTRALIA said countries could demonstrate progress through institutional and legal steps taken to achieve Protocol Article 3.1 commitments, while JAPAN suggested the assessment be based on national communications.
The AFRICAN GROUP outlined concerns with a sole focus on adaptation integration into planning, and, with BRAZIL, differentiated between short- and long-term needs.
AUSTRALIA supported QELROS for developed countries and differentiation among developing countries.
MALAWI questioned why no regional workshop had been organized in Africa and the Secretariat responded that this was due to lack of funds.
He proposed, supported by AUSTRALIA, NORWAY, the EU and others, to: begin with an exchange of ideas in a plenary setting and then engage in contact or spin-off groups; capture progress in a co-chairs’ reflection note; and invite focused and technical submissions by parties.
The US said the political deal struck by leaders in the Copenhagen Accord had achieved a balance that should be maintained.
Chile suggested adding reference to “countries most vulnerable to climate change impacts.” Emphasizing the need for a component of unconditionality in parties’ mitigation contributions, the US recognized that the LDCs have specific constraints, but opposed referencing any other group.
The G-77/CHINA said that this was an unrelated proposal that did not constitute alternative text.
  On LDCs (FCCC/SBI/2008/6), delegates heard a report from the LDC Expert Group (LEG).
TUVALU stressed that no new offseting mechanisms should be created.
The EU stressed, inter alia: the need to adopt a gender action plan and launch the local communities and indigenous peoples platform; transparency discussions under the subsidiary bodies; and the need to start work on common NDC time frames, and on enhancing the implementation of training and public awareness, participation and access to information under the Paris Agreement.
The NETHERLANDS supported awareness-raising both among the public and policy makers.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted direct linkages between the AWG-KP and other UNFCCC processes, particularly the AWG-LCA and the second review of the Kyoto Protocol under Article 9.
Regarding a proposal by the Russian Federation to amend Convention Article 4 (Commitments), paragraph 2(f), the RUSSIAN FEDERATION explained the need for periodic review of the list of countries in Annexes I and II.
INDIA said the focus should be on impacts affecting all developing countries, but that consideration could initially focus on the poorest and most vulnerable countries.
The BAHAMAS supported IMO and ICAO remaining the only bodies regulating emissions from international aviation and maritime transport.
GABON called for a clear outcome from the process.
LDCs, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted the limited success to date in implementing technology development and transfer.
AUSTRALIA highlighted funding initiatives including: a new and additional fast-start contribution of US$355.4 million; US$56 million for REDD+ through the international forest carbon initiative; US$178.2 million for the international climate change adaptation initiative; and US$106.2 million to multilateral agencies to facilitate developing countries’ transition to low-carbon growth pathways and adaptation to climate change.
Emphasizing the large contribution of the energy sector to her country e2 80 99s emissions, CROATIA explained it has set a renewable energy target of 20% of gross final energy consumption in 2020, and an energy efficiency target of 9% by 2020, compared to average consumption in 2001-2005.
 Following comments from the EU and the PHILIPPINES on non-Annex I Parties’ use of guidelines and methodologies for inventories, ARGENTINA suggested text encouraging non-Annex I Parties’ to apply the revised 1996 guidelines in communicating their national GHG inventories.
SWITZERLAND, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, underlined the importance of training review experts, and proposed a workshop to exchange information on the preparation of third national communications.
On Adoption, the US outlined three options: the COP recommends to the COP/MOP that the attached decision be adopted; the COP recommends to the COP/MOP that the attached decision be included in the decision on the second commitment period; or the COP adopts a legal instrument that enters into force at the same time as the Protocol.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, and the AFRICAN GROUP emphasized the need to reflect binding commitments by developed countries, as well as short-, medium- and long-term actions.
JAPAN, opposed by CHINA, suggested that triggering against another Party could be limited to the facilitative branch.
The US noted this, underscoring that continuity of oversight is important and that independence and objectivity should be retained, however, an assessment of external organizations’ work in this field is also necessary.
Underscoring that parties e2 80 99 different commitments call for differentiated reporting, NORWAY suggested common principles in the 2015 agreement on, inter alia: rules for reporting emissions building on IPCC methodologies; common metrics; verification of GHG inventories; a common framework for LULUCF emissions, based on the best available knowledge; and rules and principles for carbon credit integrity.
Japan, the EU and others suggested “advanced developing countries” should do more on mitigation, while Saudi Arabia, South Africa and others opposed differentiation among developing countries.
In its closing Plenary on Friday, 5 November, the COP adopted the report of its work with a minor amendment by the G-77/CHINA and authorized Rapporteur Guerreiro to finalize the report (FCCC/CP/1999/L.1).
The EU expressed support for a robust global mechanism to address aviation emissions.
Turkey 92s proposal to be removed from the Annexes was supported by PAKISTAN, the US, MEXICO and GEORGIA.
The G-77/CHINA underscored mandatory financing contributions for adaptation activities and the need for a transparent mechanism to ensure developed countries comply with their commitments.
The SBI endorsed MOROCCO 92s offer to host COP-7 in Marrakesh.
JAPAN called for a work programme.
The EU underlined the transition to a low-carbon society.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported a new climate change framework that builds on the Kyoto Protocol, when appropriate, and takes operationalizing the Cancun Agreements as a foundation for future action.
The US cautioned against over-consolidating the sections relating to finance, as it would be difficult to refer these sections to the contact group on finance.
The COOK ISLANDS stressed the need to consider emissions from international aviation and maritime bunker fuels and highlighted her country’s submission (FCCC/AWGLCA/2010/Misc.2/Add.1).
 \t\t\tOn nuclear power, the US, opposed by Germany, proposed to remove \t\t\treference to weapons proliferation risks associated with nuclear \t\t\tpower.
SWITZERLAND opposed division between Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
The LDCs called for roundtables on all items, including, and supported by ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, and AOSIS, an in-session roundtable on compliance.
SOUTH AFRICA identified the need to advance work under the Convention and the Protocol in a “balanced and comprehensive” manner to achieve outcomes with the same legal status.
South Africa, for G-77/CHINA, noted that: the elements for a draft negotiating text annexed to Decision 1/CP.20 (Lima Call for Climate Action) are not fully negotiated; streamlining of options must be based on consensus; and parties’ views must be reflected in the text in a balanced manner.
Emphasizing the importance of the IPCC retaining distance from the policy process, the US, supported by New Zealand, Canada, Saudi Arabia and others, opposed the suggestion.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the GAMBIA, proposed deleting reference to the second commitment period, preferring language on “subsequent commitment periods.” The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, JAPAN and others also opposed reference to “environmental integrity,” identifying it as a political, not a legal, issue.
ZIMBABWE said initial actions would cover impact assessments, vulnerability assessment, evaluation of adaptation options and adaptation project implementation.
The US distinguished between providing reassurance about continuity of finance after 2012 and having a numerical target, noting that his country was scaling-up financing.
CHINA, INDIA and KUWAIT also supported noting the sources of proposals as a means to trace the history of the proposals.
LIBYA called on all Parties to honor their commitments under the UNFCCC.
Switzerland, supported by Norway, the EU and Belize, for AOSIS, proposed structuring discussions around clusters, as in the technical paper.
The EU suggested reinstating language on LDCs and SIDS and addressing emissions from international bunker fuels.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that his country does not see a long-term goal, as a numerical goal.
Following a question by the US, she said that a voluntary adjustment by a Party during the review process did not mean that the issue could not go to the compliance body.
Furthermore, most of the key Annex I parties maintain that the aggregate range of their emission reductions cannot be discussed without the US, which is not a party to the Kyoto Protocol and does not participate in discussions under the AWG-KP.
LITHUANIA reported a GHG emissions reduction of over 56% in comparison with 1990 levels under the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
 BRAZIL, PARAGUAY and Grenada, for AOSIS, opposed CCS under the CDM at this time, while AUSTRALIA, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN, KUWAIT and the EU supported its inclusion.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that the GCF continues to serve all developing countries in the Convention.
 CHINA: Li Zhaoxin, Vice Minister, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, fully supported the G- 77/China.
The EU, UMBRELLA GROUP and TUVALU said both organizations had apologized and responded promptly.
AUSTRALIA proposed stating that titles are provided for guidance only.
NORWAY disagreed, noting that the detailed timelines and upfront information could be in a COP decision.
The US asked for clarification about expanding the solicitation of CVs and the need for CHF30,000 in the budget for advisory services.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, preferred convening a separate contact group to consider the LDC Fund and related matters.
SWITZERLAND stressed that each Annex I Party should adopt legally binding QELROs.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the “threat to the continuity of the Kyoto Protocol” given that some parties have stated that “under no circumstances” will they accept a new commitment period.
INDIA emphasized that technology transfer does not refer to commercial transfer but to concessional transfer, and SAUDI ARABIA stressed that relying on market mechanisms or introducing criteria for support contradicts the Convention.
A number of countries, including NORWAY, urged a degree of flexibility for Annex I countries.
The EU recommended rationalizing the proposals and preparing a draft decision.
AUSTRALIA highlighted proposed sub-rules to overcome perverse incentives for deforestation prior to the first commitment period.
KAZAKHSTAN reiterated its wish to become an Annex I Party.
The US said references to commitments under the Protocol may be premature, questioned the interpretation of Article 4.2 (a) and (b) (fulfillment of commitments by developed country Parties) and objected to the focus on international aviation, noting that discussion of this issue should await the outcomes of SBSTA 92s discussions.
Authors have to meet the strict criteria that back IPCC assessments and, in the words of the US delegate, “a few reports do not an assessment make.”
IRAN announced its ratification of the FCCC.
Many countries, including Malawi, for the LDCs, New Zealand and the US, supported recognizing the specific circumstances of small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs, including through direct access and readiness support.
ETHIOPIA suggested that the SBI and SBSTA review parties’ per capita GHG emissions and GDP, and present draft decisions on revisions to Annex I and Annex II based on a formula determining the global average of these figures and taking into account the party’s population size.
In discussing integration across hazards, participants highlighted successful experiences in the Caribbean, Argentina, Bangladesh, the UK and the Maldives.
On Saturday, 6 June, the facilitated group focused on three clustering proposals from: the G-77/China; the EU; and Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
Representatives of countries and groups announced: the European Fund for Sustainable Development; an initiative for scaling up renewable energy in SIDS; a partnership for sustainable electricity trade between Germany, France, Morocco, Portugal and Spain; and a pledge by Rwanda to ratify the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol in early 2017.
Chile, for AILAC, said that “contributions” should be communicated every five years, with an indication of contributions for the subsequent five-year period, as well as the five-year period following that.
SAUDI ARABIA rejected new categorizations.
The US emphasized the need to invite the private sector and others to provide views on emission reduction opportunities, and encouraged incentives for businesses in order to promote sustainability and emission reductions, noting that money will be “at the heart of what we do.”
With the US, he highlighted the importance of completing national inventories.
Dan Reifsnyder (US) reported that the contact group on non-Annex I communications and the financial mechanism review appointed a group of "four non-G-77/China members and four non-Annex I members" to recommend a decision for the contact group.
The EU stated that even if it decided to offset all European greenhouse gas emissions, this would not constitute the global emission reductions envisaged.
India presented on protectionist unilateral trade measures, saying that carbon footprint standards, including aviation in the EU ETS and the proposed American Clean Energy and Security Act, restrict market access by LDCs and other developing countries.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, asked for deletion in \t\t\tthe draft decision of the preambular paragraph that recognizes the \t\t\timplementation potential of existing financing sources such as the \t\t\tprivate financing advisory network, on the grounds that the project \t\t\tis “still in its infancy.” Other parties agreed to this in the \t\t\tspirit of compromise.
Chair Stoycheva agreed to suspend the adoption of the agenda, in order to allow the G-77/China to consider the US proposal.
CHINA asked for deletion of paragraphs on reducing HFCs, stating that criteria for their inclusion need to be established first.
 In its decision (FCCC/SBI/2008/L.21/Add.1), the COP, inter alia: requests the GEF to work with its agencies to improve communication with LDCs and speed up the process through, for instance, establishing a time frame within which LDCs can access funding and other support for the preparation and implementation of projects identified in NAPAs; invites the GEF to raise awareness of the need for adequate and predictable resources under the LDC Fund; and requests SBI 33 to review progress.
CANADA suggested inviting the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) to prioritize work on climate monitoring, and the US proposed requesting GCOS and GEO to coordinate their work.
Concerning developed countries, the US supported legally binding mid- and long-term quantifiable emission reductions with a timetable, in the form of an appendix, schedule or register.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that capacity-building initiatives should be country-driven and within the intergovernmental process.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted, inter alia: the urgency of enhancing pre-2020 action and support; concerns about basing funding for developing country participation on per capita GDP; and concerns about the approach being taken to the 2017-2018 biennial budget.
LIECHTENSTEIN reported on investments in photovoltaic and waste-to-steam energy production to decouple emissions from economic growth.
Regarding AUSTRIA 92s \t\tquestion on viable options for providing electricity to rural areas, \t\tMathur noted solar roof systems, and Hongwei pointed to mini-hydropower \t\tgeneration.
INDIA ruled out new commitments for developing countries \t\tand called for work on lifestyle issues.
ICELAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, expressed concern over the difficulties posed to small countries arising from the setting of quantified limits on single project emissions and called for the adoption of a threshold value for significant proportional impact and separate reporting of process emissions.
NIGERIA objected to the US proposal for alternating ministerial and non-ministerial COPs.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, with CHINA, CUBA, SOUTH AFRICA, EGYPT, INDIA, IRAQ and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed that a contact group consider how to follow up on the high-level roundtable that took place at the 40th sessions of the Subsidiary Bodies.
ARGENTINA said she did not believe the paragraph was offensive to her country.
 \t\tOn the scope of the review, AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP and CHINA warned \t\tagainst undermining the Protocol.
Overall, \t\tdifferences reflected parties 92 previously stated positions, with the \t\tG-77/China stressing action and learning-by-doing, and the US favoring \t\tassessment in accordance with SBSTA 92s mandate as a body for scientific \t\tand technological advice.
SOUTH AFRICA, among others, stressed the principles of CBDRRC and equity.
The US said the flexibility of a full range of policy options should be retained because narrowing could “run roughshod” over differences in national circumstances.
NIGERIA said linkages between the two proposals must be considered.
 \t\tParties were briefed on the work of the Expert Group on Technology \t\tTransfer, LDC Expert Group, and Consultative Group of Experts on \t\tnon-Annex I communications.
SINGAPORE stressed that maximizing the potential of private finance will allow public financing to be directed towards countries and projects that would otherwise not receive attention.
BRAZIL stressed that Annex I commitments need to be economy-wide.
On 30 May, the US, France, Britain and others began discussions in Paris on holding one or more international conferences to persuade India and Pakistan to renounce further nuclear testing in return for help from the industrial world in developing civilian nuclear power centers.
SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and Spain, for the EU, highlighted the need for the conclusions to reflect the context of the contact group’s work.
NORWAY recommended that guidance to the GEF be clarified before Durban, as otherwise, action will be delayed until COP 18.
TANZANIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, recalled that negotiations should not diverge from the COP mandate.
Maldives, for the LDCs, said a 2°C temperature rise would take the world into the “danger zone.” Both AOSIS and LDCs urged a limit of 1.5°C temperature rise and greenhouse gas concentrations of no more than 350 ppm, as well as 40% emission reductions by developed countries by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by BARBADOS, requested referencing the impact of response measures throughout the text and Convention Article 4.8 (adverse effects and impact of response measures) for defining developing countries.
The US expressed concern that engaging stakeholders could lead to prioritizing some stakeholders over others, which he said should be avoided.
TURKEY offered criteria for adaptation finance, including vulnerability, risk, and financial capacity.
On the mandate of the facilitation branch, the EU, with the US, Australia and New Zealand, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, China and the United Arab Emirates, said cases should be dealt with on their merits and not on the basis of the Party involved.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: Participants considered a draft text compiling proposals by the EU, the G-77/CHINA and others.
The SPM suggests that \t\t\tprices between US$20-50 could lead to a power generation sector with \t\t\tlow emissions by 2050.
 \t\tADOPTION OF A COMPLIANCE MECHANISM AND SAUDI ARABIA 92S PROPOSAL TO AMEND \t\tTHE PROTOCOL:
MALAYSIA, for the G-77/ China, expressed hope that the new agenda items will not introduce new commitments for developing country Parties, and emphasized that SBSTA should not focus on long-term planning of adaptation and mitigation issues given the urgency of adaptation needs.
AUSTRALIA supported formalizing the status of mitigation pledges made in Cancun and “systematizing” the way in which the pledges are recorded.
 : Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol as part of a balanced and comprehensive outcome for Durban, saying the Cancun Agreements should be fully operationalized.
BELGIUM, \t\tGREENPEACE and others emphasized the need for coherent assumptions and \t\tstorylines, comparable scenarios, and a wide range of scenarios \t\tincluding economic, demographic and other social factors.
Jim Penman (UK) will facilitate informal consultations on the Croatian proposals.
With CANADA, he said host countries should determine sustainable development criteria.
Many countries, including the EU, Australia, Barbados, Japan, Costa Rica and the Russian Federation, expressed support for the Accord.
He called for a joint space to discuss these issues with “all parties in the room.” CHINA said that resolving the rules will not solve the problem of weak ambition.
Several parties, including CHINA and BRAZIL supported inviting parties to submit their views on all elements of the MPGs.
The UMBRELLA GROUP called for progress on methodological aspects of carbon capture and storage.
NEW ZEALAND proposed that the Secretariat conduct a stocktaking assessment of adaptation activities.
The EU highlighted national communications as an important contribution to capacity building for both Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
Reporting on the spin-off on differentiation, SOUTH AFRICA noted agreement that differentiation is at the core of the negotiations and will only be solved by a political decision.
In SBI on Thursday, 4 December, Chair Stoycheva indicated that Rob Mason (UK) and Al Waleed Al-Malik (United Arab Emirates) would co-chair a contact group to prepare a draft COP decision on this matter.
Noting that his country did not belong to any negotiating group, TURKEY asked to be considered as a group for consultations on negotiations.
The Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), supported enhancing the financial mechanism under the COP, and highlighted the importance of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) and the need for progress on the Nairobi Work Programme (NWP).
 KENYA: John K. Sambu, Minister for Environment and Natural Resources, highlighted severe droughts and famine in Africa vis-a-vis global climate change, and called for legally binding GHG targets and a draft protocol by COP-3.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted Article 4.6, which calls for flexibility for countries with economies in transition.
Australia supported stabilization at 450 ppm or less, while the Federated States of Micronesia preferred stabilization at as far below 350 ppm as possible, noting this has been supported by AOSIS and a number of vulnerable countries.
BRAZIL said the question is: what are man-made activities for which credits should be given to increase emissions?
The EU reported that Wednesday’s spin-off had identified various ways accounting can be used, and had compiled different, though not necessarily contradictory, perspectives on accountability.
The US and others noted the need to develop cost-effective mechanisms.
KAZAKHSTAN stressed that her country has been communicating relevant information to parties since June.
SAMOA, on behalf of Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for a coordination mechanism for discussing and implementing P&amp;Ms. IRAN argued that P&amp;Ms should include information and technology exchange.
MALAYSIA and others stressed the continuity of the Kyoto Protocol must not be linked to mitigation actions by developing countries.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, EU, CG-11 and NORWAY, proposed a draft decision to permit it to receive assigned amount units equivalent to the global environmental benefit created by its exports of cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy in the first commitment period, not exceeding 70 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent annually (FCCC/SBSTA/2002/MISC.3/Add.1).
TURKEY supported an increase in the frequency of national communications, saying this increase should receive financial and technical support, and supported reporting of both unilateral and supported NAMAs.
The UMBRELLA GROUP emphasized that work under the contact group could not continue until an informal consultation on the entire Chair’s draft text had been held with the AWG-KP Chair.
 \t\t\tPakistan, speaking for the G-77/China, emphasized the AWG’s focus in \t\t\tsetting further Annex I commitments and indicating that these need \t\t\tto be based on sound science, highlighting the IPCC reports and the \t\t\tneed for urgent and ambitious targets.
ZIMBABWE said income from Annex I Parties 92 carbon taxes could be used to support technology transfer, while SOUTH AFRICA added that the revenue could fund relevant research.
Responding to concerns raised by SAUDI ARABIA, UNFCCC Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa assured delegates that the Secretariat would ensure access to information and documents on the new UNFCCC website.
JAPAN emphasized that their pledge of reducing emissions by 25% from 1990 levels by 2020 is premised on an effective and fair agreement with participation by all major emitters.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, said that burden-sharing cannot be discussed without identifying the burden first.
Saying that the high-level roundtable did not increase the ambition of Annex I parties, China, opposed by the EU, Australia and Norway, proposed a contact group.
BRAZIL stressed that sectoral approaches should only apply to Annex I countries, and CHINA specified they can be effective for energy and transport emissions in industrialized countries.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, and a number of other developing countries repeated their proposal for two separate draft decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and one on Protocol Article 3.14.
MICRONESIA stressed the need to address unavoidable damage and to create innovative insurance tools.
The G-77/CHINA agreed to use two paragraphs and proposed deleting the word "very."
INDIA, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA and others opposed a new protocol.
The EU welcomed ICAO’s effort to accelerate work towards a global market-based mechanism and encouraged parties to support IMO’s efforts to assess options for such a mechanism.
The EU emphasized that his commitment to mobilize climate finance would continue after 2020 and the US$100 billion commitment could be scaled up with an expansion of the donor base.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested agreeing on the core elements of the 2015 agreement as quickly as possible and addressing information required for INDCs.
BRAZIL stressed that INDCs consideration is not a legally binding process but a means to enhance the understanding of each other e2 80 99s intentions.
BELGIUM highlighted the need to focus on clean energy and reducing emissions, not end-of-pipe solutions.
 The EU observed that the fifth review of the financial mechanism is an opportunity to have a comprehensive overview of how the division of labor among the different operating entities could be enhanced.
The EU stated its willingness to discuss the general framework and bunker fuels and, supported by CHINA, opposed moving this area of work under the SBSTA.
Regarding project eligibility under the CDM, the EU, supported by Hungary, and opposed by Japan, Australia, the US, Canada and Saudi Arabia, underlined its preference for a positive list.
The EU underscored that adverse impacts are faced by all countries and that the consideration of these impacts should focus on the poorest countries and those least able to address the impacts on their own.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), proposed changing the title of the third contact group to “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements.” After informal consultations, parties agreed to the establishment of three contact groups on: “enhanced action on adaptation and its associated means of implementation,” “enhanced action on mitigation and its associated means of implementation,” and “delivering on technology and finance, including consideration of institutional arrangements.”
ECUADOR questioned whether CCS would result in sustainable development benefits for the host country.
ARGENTINA urged for legal parity of adaptation with mitigation and called for discussions on differentiation to take into account persistent poverty.
JAPAN underscored that they will “never inscribe their new target under the Kyoto Protocol under any circumstances.” He said Japan adds value to discussions on the rules due to their experience in implementing them, and noted that the discussions on rules under the AWG-KP are beneficial for discussions under the AWG-LCA.
 This session was facilitated by co-facilitator Sarah Baashan, and focused on the proposals for unpacking this section made by Australia, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for comprehensive, coherent and balanced progress.
On timing and procedures under Part I, General Approach to Review, JAPAN suggested inserting text that addresses review for reinstatement of eligibility to use mechanisms.
El Salvador, for SICA, said the meeting has laid a solid foundation for Durban.
In response to a suggestion by the US, who noted that mitigation costs are insignificant when compared to the projected consumption growth rate, the Panel agreed to add a bar on the side of the figure to represent baseline consumption growth.
CANADA stressed substance, not timing, as the most important consideration and, with POLAND, said it is impractical for Parties to report on all climate change-related policies and measures.
ISRAEL said that it was developing a greenhouse gas emissions reduction policy.
MEXICO, supported by the EU, called for strengthening the technology component.
  was accepted after an author clarified that a reference to “redistributive” policies is supported by the literature, in response to a suggestion from the US that a general reference to policies may be more acceptable.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, affirmed progress was made under the resumed session, and indicated that most remaining issues are of a political nature.
NEW ZEALAND urged SBSTA to adopt a long term approach and further consider treatment of harvested wood products.
In response, the US defined screening as the process that would knock out deminimis cases and determine whether a matter deserves to go forward.
The UK called for \t\tdistinguishing the work to be undertaken at the Convention and at the \t\tnational level.
SOUTH AFRICA recommended including information on quantified economy-wide emission reductions in the biennial reports.
KUWAIT said discussions on aviation and maritime emissions raise serious methodological, technical and legal concerns.
The EU said they could increase their emission reduction target from 20% to 30% below 1990 levels by 2020, if other countries take on comparable targets.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored the need to work towards a concrete and achievable outcome in Cancun that would serve as the basis for an ambitious and legally-binding outcome.
AOSIS and AILAC called for a clear definition of climate finance, with AILAC stressing this will help avoid double counting.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported by Jamaica, proposed referring to the decision as the “Lima Work Programme on Gender.” Jamaica stated that the proposed actions should be guided by gender equality, not merely gender balance.
On mitigation by developed countries, JAPAN stressed the need to address the legal framework for commitments by Protocol non-parties, including the US.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, highlighted the Protocol as the most important legal instrument addressing climate change and called on Annex I countries to respect their legal commitment to a second commitment period.
Agreeing to focus the 2017 workshop on long-term climate finance, parties commented on the workshop’s scope, with the Philippines, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), calling for it to: be informed by the High-Level Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; increase clarity on how to scale up climate finance; and, with the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), consider how to advance adaptation finance.
Development and transfer of technology: The G-77/CHINA indicated that developing countries are constrained by lack of: necessary technologies and 93know-how 94; appropriate institutions and financial resources; and regular forums to exchange ideas and build positions.
The PHILIPPINES presented examples of local adaptation policies, including information campaigns, legislative frameworks and adaptation projects.
Parties then debated the G-77/China proposal, with Malaysia, for the LIKE MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (LMDCs), and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterating the importance that views expressed during pre-consultation meetings be fairly reflected.
The G-77/CHINA identified the need for additional funding for the Special Climate Change Fund and the Least Developed Country Fund, developing country adaptation and developing country national communications.
The issue of the adverse impacts of \t\tclimate change and of response measures to climate change on developing \t\tcountries under Protocol Article 3.14 was taken up in SBI plenary on 8 \t\tNovember, with a report on the outcomes of a workshop on reporting \t\tmethodologies held in Abu Dhabi, UAE, from 4-6 September 2006 \t\t(FCCC/SBI/2006/27).
China, with Brazil, Chile, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Venezuela, and opposed by Australia, Canada, Japan, the US and New Zealand, argued that the mandate of the enforcement body should include Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 (adverse effects).
 The EU said the objective and time-frame should result in absolute reductions but consider relative efficiency.
Supporting emissions trading, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the Russian people had paid a very high price for "hot air" by reducing their living standards.
The US also presented a proposal to assess the progress of implementing Convention Article 10.2(a) (assessment of Convention implementation information), and to consider and discuss this at SBI 30.
SENEGAL urged consideration of sustainable development, environmental integrity and the implications of the proposals made, calling for a focus on high benefits in terms of technology and socioeconomic aspects.
INDIA proposed adding a paragraph stating that the SBSTA adopted this document as the basis of guidelines and format for preparation of the initial communications from non-Annex I Parties.
GERMANY urged countries to enrich progress by making concrete proposals regarding numbers for significant overall reductions and the contributions that countries intend to make toward these goals.
The US stressed, inter alia, the role of the private sector and the importance of holistic, bottom-up approaches.
AUSTRALIA expressed reservation about proposals to consider paragraphs 17-18 of Decision 1/CP.20 (Lima Call for Climate Action) in detail, while SOUTH AFRICA stressed the importance of advancing this work.
The US, CANADA, JAPAN and EU said the EGTT 92s draft work programme is ambitious, but manageable.
SAUDI ARABIA said assessment should cover various sectors and social groups, and be comprehensive, collective and dynamic.
POLAND reported emissions decreases, despite economic growth, and said that the energy sector is responsible for 80% of the country e2 80 99s emissions.
AOSIS said this would allow for adjustment of targets based on recent science but that an eight-year period could be considered if Annex I parties increased their pledges dramatically.
AOSIS, MEXICO, and UGANDA noted that Annex I countries are not fulfilling commitments and emissions are on the rise.
On risk management, the EU emphasized strengthening resilience, improving preparedness, enhancing the role of the private sector, and creating an enabling environment.
Belgium, for the EU, emphasized the importance of achieving a balanced package of decisions in Cancun in order to restore trust in the multilateral climate change process.
BRAZIL and AOSIS warned against e2 80 9cministerial fatigue.
The EU said hard work was required before COP-6, but that the foundations had been laid at SB-12.
The EU suggested also registering outcomes of actions.
The G-77/China, supported by the EU, stressed the importance of the Secretariat also considering gaps and shortfalls in implementing the framework.
NORWAY noted the need for a common set of rules for MRV and for accounting of emissions in relation to targets.
New \t\t\tZealand, the US, Brazil expressed concern about including the \t\t\tstabilization scenarios.
The EU and SWITZERLAND stressed the need to cover all elements of the AWG-KP’s work programme.
JAPAN, with a number of other Annex I Parties, indicated that he did not consider reporting under Article 3.14 to be mandatory, and could not accept a link to mechanisms eligibility.
Barbados, for AOSIS, suggested that work on long-term finance should focus on: scaling up finance; improving access to finance for developing countries; and ensuring a balance between adaptation and mitigation activities.
The EU suggested the LEG undertake work based on an annual planning cycle and that guidance to the GEF be considered under the agenda item on the financial mechanism.
Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed concern about “insufficient and disappointing” progress in some areas.
KUWAIT opposed the inclusion of air and ground transportation and highlighted CCS as a possible improvement to CDM, and, with SAUDI ARABIA, opposed sectoral crediting.
On Annex I communications, the EU noted the need to include indicators such as emissions per capita or emissions per unit of output.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted legal difficulties with a prompt start, and suggested expanding the AIJ pilot phase to accommodate this.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed bracketing and renaming some of the titles.
NEW ZEALAND said that if a common reference year of 1990 were selected, parties would be free to choose their desired base year without any implications for comparability.
The US suggested an executive summary format while the LMDCs opposed high-level communications saying that such communications could undermine the goal of increasing the profile of adaptation.
The EU said additional activities under Article 3.4 should not be applied during the first commitment period unless its concerns related to scale, uncertainties and risks associated with sinks were resolved.
Switzerland, for the EIG, recognized the COP Presidency’s efforts to ensure a transparent, inclusive and result-oriented process, and welcomed the AWG-LCA Chair’s new text.
Mexico, for the EIG, looked forward to considering the IPCC’s contribution to the global stocktake and assessing the Nairobi Work Programme.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS preferred to base work \t\ton the Co-Chairs 92 proposal.
In discussions, the US, EU, Saint Lucia, Switzerland, Indonesia, Egypt and Venezuela raised a number of issues, including: the role of LULUCF; the management of offsets in the context of interactions between developed and developing country parties; equitable access to sustainable development; and innovative approaches to using surplus AAUs.
The EU called for specifying terms of reference for EB members concerning conflicts of interest and opposed the inclusion of reforestation of lands with forests in exhaustion and said forest management should be addressed under REDD-plus.
SWITZERLAND cautioned against adopting hasty decisions on the basis of inadequate knowledge.
The US noted that some grey literature is reviewed every bit as rigorously as peer-reviewed journals, that authors must make a judgment on the quality of a source, and that the IPCC should demonstrate to the scientific community that it values their effort to publish literature.
CHINA highlighted its proposed paragraph specifying the aim of reducing per capita emissions differences between developed and developing countries.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC said that the report should be more detailed and include difficulties encountered by Parties in obtaining GEF resources to prepare national communications.
On crediting based on NAMAs, the G-77/CHINA and TUVALU preferred no decision.
On cycles, the UMBRELLA GROUP and PALAU emphasized five-year cycles for reporting and review.
NEW ZEALAND opposed.
Responding to KENYA 92s comment on the difficulties in dealing with the implementing agencies, El-Ashry said the GEF was trying to improve the responsiveness of the implementing agencies.
The G-77/CHINA: said the second review should be limited to that foreseen in Article 4; noted it would be logical to hold the next review at the same time as COP/MOP-2; and indicated flexibility on timing of subsequent reviews.
The EU, opposed by JAPAN, the US, CANADA, CHINA, and NEW ZEALAND, urged discussions on methodologies to determine Parties ef bf bd contributions.
On Outcomes and Consequences, SAUDI ARABIA said the CDM should not be addressed under the compliance system.
PARAGUAY highlighted ancestral knowledge embedded in indigenous peoples, whose rights should be at the core of monitoring actions.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and others, opposed by BARBADOS, the PHILIPPINES and others, supported enhancing existing institutions.
CHILE said that consideration of consequences should be a fundamental part of the agreement.
EGYPT sought clarity on the scale of finance and supported quantified targets for finance to ensure predictability.
JAPAN encouraged GCOS, in cooperation with the WMO, to monitor the status of implementation with a view to utilizing recent technologies to fill the gaps in climate observing systems.
On objectives, principles and purposes, the EU identified convergence on various areas, including cost effectiveness, transparency and equity and divergence on issues, such as inter-tradeability.
The US said only that it supported the need to consider \'new aims\' through negotiations under the SBI for the post-2000 period, generally avoiding the word \'protocol.\' Nordic countries supported stronger action and countries with economies in transition said it was premature to take action on new commitments.
On commitments, the US stated that success of the Protocol requires the involvement of all countries, while Kuwait opposed the imposition of any additional obligations on developing countries.
The US said the shape of a future deal would entail developed countries continuing to lead by undertaking mid-term, economy-wide reductions and major advanced developing economies undertaking measurable and quantifiable national actions and meaningful mid-term reductions.
 \t\tTanzania, on behalf of the G-77/China, \t\talong with the US and Romania, speaking for the economies in transition, \t\texpressed concerns at insufficient information provided for the \t\tcomprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity \t\tbuilding in developing countries, and for the compilation and synthesis \t\tof capacity-building activities in economies in transition (EITs).
The G-77/ CHINA supported the development of text for discussion at the informal meetings prior to SB-13 and noted that, under the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, COP-6 needs to develop initial actions rather than simply a process.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, called for enhancing a supporting framework for national communications, and a capacity building framework.
BOTSWANA and SRI LANKA welcomed LAKI’s progress and future workshops.
Jack Fitzgerald, US EPA, on behalf of Toral Patel-Weynand, US Department of State, presented a list of US bilateral projects in non-Annex I Parties.
Nicaragua, for the Central American Integration System (SICA), said work under the ADP should include all pillars of the BAP.
On establishing a fund for climate-related disaster relief, the EU and the US said that such a fund could add complexity to the provision of funding due to the recognized difficulty in distinguishing between natural and human-induced climate disasters.
NORWAY added that it should be made clear that the numbers are illustrative and provisional and ICELAND cautioned against attaching too much importance to the numbers.
Mexico, Guyana, Belize, for CARICOM, and Brazil emphasized building on existing institutions.
THAILAND, VENEZUELA, TANZANIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed discussion of reduction commitments for developing countries.
IRAN, TURKEY and KUWAIT supported the proposal.
COLOMBIA called for the new climate agreement to include a review process for means of implementation in light of evolving needs, such as the intensifying impacts of climate change.
Belgium, for the EU, said the meeting had not lived up to his expectations.
ARGENTINA and BANGLADESH emphasized the importance of food security.
CANADA, the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and US underscored the importance of the timing of SBSTA activities.
Noting the importance of biomass for many LDCs, AUSTRALIA said models need to take into account all GHGs and sinks.
JAPAN said technology must be the core element of a future agreement and highlighted a sectoral approach.
On the draft COP decision on principles, nature and scope of the mechanisms, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA and SAMOA, proposed deleting text emphasizing that environmental integrity is to be achieved through sound modalities, rules and guidelines for the mechanisms, strict principles and rules governing LULUCF, and a strong compliance regime.
AUSTRALIA said she could accept the amended Option C, but that this depended on inclusion of a "net" approach and removal of an exclusion of land-use change and forestry in the article\'s first paragraph.
The US, AUSTRALIA and CANADA argued that decision text relating to verification and accountability procedures for legal entities should be addressed by the contact group on Articles 5,7 and 8.
SOUTH AFRICA said MRV must be applied to legally-binding mitigation commitments by developed countries, mitigation action in developing countries based on technological and financial assistance, and implementation of financing, technology and capacity building commitments by developed countries.
Highlighting recent science, AOSIS urged stabilization well below 350 ppm to avoid warming of over 1.5ºC, and supported 1990 as the base year.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the role that their proposal for a facilitative platform could play in addressing the core issues of MRV and finance.
SWITZERLAND commented that focusing on the post-2020 climate regime does not reduce the importance of resolving pre-2020 levels of ambition, and urged delegates to view the two ADP work streams as being mutually supportive.
The G-77/CHINA said that a “friends of the chair” group would have to be open-ended, and allow negotiating groups to select their representatives.
On the transparency framework, Andrew Rakestraw (US) reported three iterations were completed and thanked co-facilitators of linked issues for their coordination.
On leakage, the EU expressed concern about measuring leakage from activity displacement.
VENEZUELA opposed limiting action to studies and called for a COP-4 decision.
On paragraph 6, AUSTRALIA suggested that the Committee should not duplicate activities performed by other Convention "processes" as opposed to Convention bodies.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for deep and ambitious reduction commitments on behalf of Annex I countries, and for ensuring that all efforts under the Protocol do not impose constraints on the most vulnerable countries.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the importance of providing regionally relevant information and datasets, and SAUDI ARABIA called for addressing regional issues in the Working Group reports.
On success factors, the EU stated it exceeded its Canc c3 ban mitigation pledge.
The EU, NORWAY, the US, JAPAN and other developed countries indicated that the appropriate place for discussing mitigation ambition is under the ADP.
The LMDCs and Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for further defining the global goal on adaptation, including by developing metrics.
UK Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott welcomed all participants to the UK.
IRAN, ARGENTINA and ALGERIA said that technology transfer should proceed under the principles and provisions of the Convention.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted outstanding issues, including operationalization of an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol beginning on 1 January 2013, and commitment by Annex I parties to ambitious QELROs.
SAUDI ARABIA said its AGBM "team" would not be the same its SBSTA one and preferred not to continue consultations at AGBM 2.
SINGAPORE emphasized clarity of information provided.
INDIA said global sectoral approaches are not appropriate for developing countries, and UGANDA noted the need to address adverse effects of response measures.
The EU, CHILE, AILAC and AOSIS supported ministerial engagement under workstream 2.
The US said much has changed since the Convention was agreed, and CHINA said lack of implementation by Annex I parties has not changed.
The UK urged that adequate time be ensured for visa acquisition in advance of both of these meetings.
The G-77/ CHINA expressed the hope that further areas of convergence would continue to emerge during SB-13, and stressed the need for a balanced package of decisions at COP-6.
BRAZIL emphasized the importance of the concept of “developed country parties taking the lead.”
The US stressed it would fulfill its pre-2020 pledges and join the Agreement in 2016.
CHINA underscored integrating adaptation into sustainable development programmes, as this is the ultimate objective of the FCCC, but stressed the right of a sovereign state to design its own national policies.
Penny Wong, Minister for Climate and Water of Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for an agreement delivering an environmental outcome and which has legally-binding commitments for all major economies to realize a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
JAPAN said the AGBM must not focus solely on quantified objectives, but also on P&amp;M. He proposed establishing mechanisms that review P&amp;M and enhance them step-by-step.
AOSIS said he was \t\tunconvinced by the technology.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern about the slow pace of progress, noting the group will encourage its experts to continue informal discussions.
Highlighting the US$ 2.7 billion already invested in mitigation, GEF Chair Monique Barbut emphasized GEF reform around four focal points: response to Convention guidance; country ownership; effectiveness and efficiency; and the fifth replenishment.
The EU underlined the importance of: enabling immediate implementation of the second commitment period; and developing general guidelines on domestic MRV of NAMAs in developing countries.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), expressed support for achieving a draft of the agreement to be adopted in 2015 and further defining the tasks to be undertaken in 2015.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested amalgamating text relating to issuers and users of ITMOs.
Greg Combet, Minister of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the collective contribution of his group to fast-start finance of US$20 billion and said they are ready to support a deal that puts in place the building blocks of a comprehensive climate framework.
The EU said initiatives by parties to work on the text were important, and represented a transparent approach.
JAPAN cautioned against duplication of work.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS highlighted technology adaptation.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for: balance between mitigation and adaptation; and finance to ensure ambition is enhanced, highlighting public long-term finance and not transferring the financing burden to developing countries.
Several Annex I countries, including the US, Norway, the EU, \t\tand Switzerland, noted their support for the GEF 92s work, while several \t\tdeveloping countries cited issues with the GEF.
 The EU underlined the differences in countries’ ability and costs associated with meeting commitments.
INDIA and CHINA stressed that the AWG simply needs to \t\tdecide on new quantitative commitments and the length of the second \t\tcommitment period.
The BAHAMAS highlighted the need for early warning systems and environmentally-sound technologies, insurance and scaled-up international cooperation supported by a multilateral technology fund.
SWITZERLAND noted the bottom-up approach suggested by the G-77/China and advocated tailor-made approaches for each country.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of recognizing developing countries’ development priorities.
The EU suggested a greater focus on the IPCC Special Report on Technology Transfer.
CANADA called attention to meeting stakeholder needs, and CHINA suggested that governments and research institutions play an active role.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA highlighted economic opportunities to shift to a low-carbon economy.
Switzerland, Norway, the US, the UK, the Marshall Islands, Uzbekistan, and Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, supported including a list, noting that the SBSTA should indicate that the SAR had important messages for policy makers.
On  , parties underscored, inter alia: access to weather and climate information; community-level capacity building; special needs of small island developing states (SIDS) and LDCs; unequal distribution of losses among and within countries; and integration of disaster relief and resilience strategies.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CHAD said that parallel meetings were a problem for smaller delegations, but endorsed the proposal for two extra weeks.
SAUDI ARABIA said convergence must be reached on areas where there is disagreement and that innovative ways to address them must be found or they will “keep coming back” in the future.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for coherence of financing under the Convention and “enhanced support to enable enhanced actions.” Canada suggested focusing on areas of complementarity and on increased effectiveness of the Financial Mechanism.
Cyprus, for the European Union (EU), underscored the need to discuss how the Convention principles will be applied in a post­-2020 framework so all parties take on commitments, and that any work going forward must adhere to the two workstreams.
Subsequently in the contact group, the PHILIPPINES regretted that after a year of negotiations on the issue, agreement had not been reached, while the EU noted that the proposal on holding workshops was recently introduced.
On first order problems, GERMANY and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested including reference to this issue in the draft decision on Article 7 rather than in the guidelines under this article.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the need to avoid duplicating work.
JAPAN said his country supports the continuation of the CDM provided it is improved, noting that new market-based mechanisms should allow a wide spectrum of approaches, including projects and sector-based approaches.
The US, supported by Canada and Australia, and opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that this item address the submission of second and subsequent national communications.
 GERMANY: Angela Merkel, Federal Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, said the SAR confirms the need for more intensive action.
Cuba, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA (ALBA), said the technology framework should lead to an “action framework” and that cooperative approaches cannot be used to avoid obligations to provide finance.
The US, with Australia, Finland and others, suggested that terms be slightly overlapping to allow the Chair and Co-Chairs to be involved in the work of dissemination and providing feedback on the process.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the US and the EU, emphasized that discussions on response measures should be separate from those on adaptation.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, expressed concern that the new text does not adequately reflect parties’ views on finance.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported progress \t\t\ton the Adaptation Fund, technology transfer, and response measures.
MADAGASCAR called on Annex I Parties to fulfill their obligations.
  PAPUA NEW GUINEA, with the US, GHANA, AUSTRALIA, INDONESIA, the EU, GUYANA and SWITZERLAND, said Appendix 2 of the Cancun Agreements (FCCC/CP/2010/7/Add.1) should form the basis for discussions.
The EU stressed defining aspects of adaptation and MOI in the 2015 agreement.
MAURITIUS, on behalf of the African Group, BELIZE and CHILE supported AIJ as a supplement to the FCCC.
 \t\t\tSaint Vincent and the \t\t\tGrenadines, for AOSIS, drew attention to mangroves and coral reefs \t\t\tas a first line of defense for coastal zones, “brain drain” from \t\t\tSIDS and, with MICRONESIA, insurance issues.
Brazil highlighted that the diversity of situations should be captured, and with the US, supported addressing these issues further during negotiations.
The EU stressed that renewable energy exemplified the synergies between sustainable development and climate change.
The US expressed a concern about language on “direct access” to funds, which he said needed further clarification.
 Andrew Rakestraw (US) co-facilitated.
BOLIVIA said an appropriate accounting scheme would also be applicable under Articles 6 and 12.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT expressed concern about the COP’s failure to adopt rules of procedure and said that a compromise must be reached soon.
The EU envisaged a variety of functions for the EB, including: issuing Certified Emission Reductions (CERs); registering projects; and addressing issues related to accreditation of Operational Entities.
  NORWAY and AUSTRALIA identified the need to consider legal issues and, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed synergies between the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
CANADA and JAPAN emphasized that JI is subject to the rigor of guidelines under Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8.
JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, preferred stating language that the guidelines "shall be used" instead of "should be used" to ensure the comparability of national communications.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA underscored its idea for a market mechanism for finance and technology transfer.
The Gambia, for LDCs, stressed the need to define appropriate policy incentives for REDD+ to ensure adequate and predictable funding for developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that the compliance body determine mandatory outcomes or consequences only for Annex I Parties.
On whether the proposed registry mechanism should be housed under the financial mechanism, Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that it should be a stand-alone structure with clear and direct links to the financial mechanism.
The EU expressed concern about the mixing of qualitative and quantitative indicators under tracking of progress on Agreement Article 6.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), said climate change limits the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The AFRICAN GROUP noted that the necessary scale of funding has never been dealt with before under a UN convention and wondered about institutional arrangements.
POLAND prefers a protocol, as explained by the EU and Russian Federation.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA also outlined a number of options, including: not allowing carryover; capping carryover; restricting carryover use; taxing transfer or acquisition of carryover AAUs; agreeing not to purchasing surplus AAUs; adopting stricter emission reduction targets; and restricting use of acquired AAUs.
The NETHERLANDS requested \t\tinclusion of reference to cross-border geological storage.
\t\t\tGhana, for the G-77/China, wanted the body to be under the authority \t\t\tof the COP and to submit reports both to SBSTA and SBI.
  The LDC Expert Group (LEG) reported on its work (FCCC/SBI/2008/14).
Instead, AUSTRALIA preferred a “family friendly” approach and “human rights for climate negotiators” so delegates are not away from their families for four weekends in a row.
China, for the LMDCs, proposed defining accounting and, opposed by the EU, developing accounting guidance for technology and capacity-building support.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the item on forum on the implementation of response measures should also be included, observing that consulting further on some items implied that these items were being held in abeyance.
 JAPAN reported on informal informals, noting the group worked late into the night on Wednesday.
The US added that developing countries should be eligible for support in implementing their contributions, and LDCs and others should have flexibility to submit at their discretion without expectation.
JAPAN highlighted the Hyogo Framework of Action.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that agreement on finance could unlock progress on other issues and called for a comprehensive package.
On the length of the second commitment period and level of ambition, parties’ views differed, with AOSIS, the G-77/China, the African Group and LDCs favoring a five-year commitment period.
The EU welcomed the structured expert dialogue (SED) report and emphasized the need to finalize meaningful conclusions on the 2013-2015 review with a view to informing the ADP process.
During the ensuing discussion, INDIA questioned the applicability of legislative measures to control abstraction from rivers in cases where water volumes fluctuate widely.
ITALY presented data on world energy demand, and concluded that electricity production in developing countries is both the biggest challenge and opportunity for the dissemination of renewables.
 KIRIBATI: Timbo Keariki, Minister of Environment and Social Development, stressed that the coral atolls that comprise his nation are three meters above sea level, and urged that decisions under the FCCC be guided by the need to save the most vulnerable ecosystems.
Ecuador, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America (ALBA), highlighted that the future of the Durban Platform is intertwined with the adoption in Doha of ambitious legally-binding commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND suggested inviting \t\tvoluntary submissions on adaptive capacities in national communications.
AUSTRALIA noted a possible role for such assessments, but requested identifying that the terms of reference for such assessments would be negotiated at a later date.
Sweden, for the EU, supported by JAPAN, COLOMBIA, CANADA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, GUYANA and many others, supported establishing a “friends of the chair” group.
A US recommendation to change a reference in L.8 from a "special voluntary fund" into a "special fund" was also agreed.
INDIA and others said they supported only positive lists, while the EU said negative lists could be needed, for instance, to avoid double counting and to clarify that unilateral NAMAs do not qualify under the CDM.
The EU supported an agreed work programme to be carried out through workshops by experts from a roster selected by the Secretariat or the SBSTA Bureau.
OPEC highlighted the impacts of climate change response measures on economies dependent on fossil fuel exports, and suggested that the "entire philosophy of energy taxation" be reconsidered.
On biennial reports, MALI noted the reports should address mitigation and means of implementation, and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized reporting on the effects of mitigation activities.
On LULUCF, CHINA cautioned against any loopholes.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the Protocol is the only instrument in place to harmonize efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and stressed that the AWG-KP should be “steered away from” the AWG-LCA to maintain the distinction between the two tracks.
The G-77/CHINA urged progress on adaptation and improving the geographical distribution of CDM projects.
PROPOSAL FROM BELARUS TO PREPARE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF AMENDMENT OF \t\tANNEX B TO THE PROTOCOL:
UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer said Copenhagen should result in: an agreement on implementation of mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology, reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries (REDD) and capacity-building actions; ambitious emission reductions commitments and “start-up finance” of around US$10 billion per year; and a shared vision on long-term cooperative action.
The EU stated that the inclusion of aviation emissions in the EU ETS from 2012 onwards will not undermine an open economic system.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), highlighted climate impacts suffered by AOSIS members and lamented the “collective failure” to fulfill climate change commitments made decades ago.
The US, initially opposed by Saudi Arabia, said the decision-making authority should rest with the ExComm.
The EU said MRV under the Protocol needs to be linked to discussions under the AWG-LCA.
With Mali and the UK, Germany also highlighted the lack of sustainable resources for the DDC and the need to look for additional funding.
ZIMBABWE clarified that the G-77\'s proposal calls for an ad hoc working group to meet during the COP.
Honduras, for SICA, said: adaptation is the priority for the majority of developing countries, in particular for the most vulnerable ones; the ADP outcome must be based on the Convention’s provisions and principles, including equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
Following high-level consultations on 22 May, Japan and the EU publicly agreed to pool efforts to convince the US to sign the Protocol and encourage developing countries to reduce emissions.
ALGERIA expressed concern about lack of progress and funding.
COP President Hedegaard indicated that proposals relating to adoption of new protocols under the Convention had been received from five countries: Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, Tuvalu and the US (FCCC/CP/2009/3-7).
AWG-LCA Chair Daniel Reifsnyder (US) opened the resumed fourteenth session of the Ad hoc Working Group on Long-term Cooperative Action under the Convention, recalling the goal of forwarding a comprehensive, balanced and robust outcome to the COP.
AILAC called for a stand-alone paragraph on human rights.
The US, Australia and the EU expressed concern about the placement of sub-paragraph (iii), which prohibits new forms of conditionality, in this paragraph.
The G-77/CHINA urged Parties to complete their national communications as soon as possible.
The EU stressed that these problems, such as "unexplained apparent data inconsistencies," could be identified during the initial check.
On loss and damage, AOSIS, the LDCs, AILAC, the AFRICAN GROUP and others, opposed by AUSTRALIA, emphasized that it should become a stand-alone element in the new agreement.
SYRIA supported having discussions on India’s proposals.
SWITZERLAND said the second review should, inter alia, address stabilization of GHG emissions by Annex I Parties, and, citing Article 7.2 (a), said the issue of adequacy should not be restricted to Annex I Parties.
AOSIS supported the formation of the contact group but stressed that the discussion should “unlock the political commitment to the second commitment period” rather than continue a repetitive technical debate, adding that breakout groups would not be helpful without this step.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for: a fair multilateral rules-based regime bringing into effect equitable access to sustainable development, and an equity reference framework.
 In SBSTA Plenary on Friday, 7 June, the EU, Switzerland, Tuvalu, and Norway proposed inviting the Secretariat to explore methodological issues relating to emissions from international transport, and report results to SB-17.
NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CANADA and the US suggested highlighting a variety of sources.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, urged consideration of how to complete the report on performance indicators.
FINLAND and DENMARK pledged support to the LDC Fund.
The EU noted it was time to develop text on possible amendments to the Protocol and the Marrakesh Accords, including possibly on LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms.
CANADA proposed deleting the decision.
AOSIS said they were prepared to move forward and, with SOUTH AFRICA, hoped that the consolidated paragraphs could become the basis of a negotiating document.
On procedures for inscribing commitments for Annex I parties under Protocol Annex B, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA, SINGAPORE and SAUDI ARABIA said the current provisions are sufficient.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed disappointment with the slow pace of negotiations on key issues, in particular on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
Thailand, for G-77/CHINA, highlighted SBSTA’s work on agriculture, calling it “the backbone” of socio-economic development in developing countries.
On implementation of FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 with Decision 3/CP.3 and Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14, ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and ETHIOPIA, called on the SBI to identify the needs of developing countries, requesting information from SBSTA and the IPCC.
Noting that the Protocol is the only viable option, JAPAN stressed developing common rules to apply to all countries.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and JAMAICA supported detailed and rigorous reporting.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged the development of a workplan at this session, and others asked if these submissions would constitute a workplan.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted a constructive atmosphere and stressed the need for the facilitative sharing of views under international consultation and analysis (ICA) to begin by Paris.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the importance of support for enabling NAMAs and opposed changing the frequency of reporting or revising reporting guidelines.
CANADA noted the lack of clarity in what an adjustment would be.
 ARGENTINA, the US and IRAN expressed concerns regarding participation of developing countries in scientific programmes.
CANADA, the EU and NORWAY sought clarification on elections of alternate Executive Board members.
Highlighting a green tax reform on non-EU ETS sources, PORTUGAL called for a consultation and analysis phase to ensure actions are in line with ambition.
BANGLADESH proposed the establishment of an international adaptation research and technology support center in his country.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the meeting should delineate the elements of the 2015 agreement and identify what can be elaborated in subsequent decisions.
On \t\tpossible workshops, Finland, supported by the US and Canada, proposed \t\tstructuring workshops on adaptation along four themes: tools and data \t\trequirements and availability; critical issues; monitoring and \t\tevaluation tools; and best practices, and the US, supported by Saudi \t\tArabia, stressed a sectoral approach to the workshops.
Recalling previous instances where Parties have "agreed to disagree," the US objected, and said that Parties were not obliged to forward the penultimate text.
JAPAN identified \t\toil shocks and other economic and social conditions as incentives for \t\ttechnology innovation.
 Mohamed El-Ashry, Chair and CEO of the GEF, stated that between February 1995 and April 1996, the GEF Council approved US$215 million for climate change activities.
The US highlighted that early identification of policy-relevant questions for the SYR will help integrating them into the structure of the WGs’ reports and thus provide better synthesis of information.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Malaysia, for the LMDCs, emphasized work on the 2018 facilitative dialogue.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SWITZERLAND, JAPAN, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by the LDCs, suggested replacing e2 80 9con the basis of e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cby furthering the consideration of e2 80 9d annex I, and, supported by the LDCs and opposed by the LMDCs and BRAZIL, including reference to the ADP preparing e2 80 9cany related decisions.
The US and New Zealand supported retaining the paragraph.
On terminology, SOUTH AFRICA suggested that there be a "compliance system" with different bodies depending on their facilitative and enforcement role.
In plenary and contact group sessions, parties disagreed on whether to refer to positive as well as negative potential consequences, with the EU, Canada, Japan and others supporting the inclusion of both, India opposing, and others suggesting a focus on negative effects with positive effects potentially discussed in the future.
 CANADA described the work done by the joint OECD/IEA project on national communications.
 The contact group convened throughout the day, co-chaired by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives).
AUSTRALIA asked how the precautionary principle could assist Parties in achieving compliance.
NEW ZEALAND opposed financial penalties and, with AUSTRALIA, a compliance fund.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said reaching an agreed outcome on all pillars of the BAP was a precondition for terminating the AWG-LCA and noted pending issues related to, inter alia, long-term finance and shared vision.
CANADA said the SBSTA must identify key findings in the SAR if it is to provide appropriate advice to the AGBM and the COP.
AOSIS recalled that the modalities under discussion are to apply in the first commitment period only, and, with the EU, did not support a stand-alone insurance approach.
SAUDI ARABIA proposed to focus on the interactions among the four building blocks.
The EU noted that the LDC Fund should,  \t\t \t\tinter alia, \t\tsupport integration with development plans, be country-driven, and \t\tsupport implementation of urgent adaptation measures.
The EU, with NORWAY, underscored that they wished to see a collective ambition to reduce emissions by 30% below 1990 levels by 2020.
AUSTRALIA said this could accelerate the review process.
France (on behalf of the EU), Fiji, Australia, Kenya, Benin and the UK understood the concerns, however, worried about setting a precedent.
SAUDI ARABIA requested adjournment of the meeting, noting the obstructive position of certain Annex I Parties in the contact group on adverse effects, and recalling the agreement struck on 9 June to use the consolidated texts on adverse effects and on mechanisms as the basis for negotiation.
The US opposed language regarding financial or capacity-building implications.
On Thursday and Friday, 8-9 June, the sub-group continued consideration of the EU proposal on the Classification of Inventory Problems in the guidelines under Article 8.
SAUDI ARABIA added that it was premature to consider a decision before holding another workshop involving more developing countries, and highlighted other pressing issues in the lead-up to COP-6.
TUVALU urged a substantial outcome at Copenhagen, and called for accelerated actions by all countries to reduce emissions drastically and urgently.
Similar concerns were voiced by C d4TE D’IVOIRE and TUNISIA, who called for international solidarity and encouraged technology sharing, and GREECE, who noted the need for international cooperation in achieving targets based on equity principles that address social and economic impacts.
INDONESIA looked forward to next steps.
The US disagreed and noted many studies showed positive impacts from response measures.
NORWAY supported an ex ante process.
On  , a proposal was presented by Australia, Canada, the EU and the Russian Federation, identifying key elements of what might constitute force majeure.
BOLIVIA agreed, emphasizing concerns over market mechanisms, including double counting and non-additionality that could increase emissions.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND urged prioritizing attention to the most vulnerable countries.
A contact \t\tgroup on the issue, co-chaired by Philip Gwage (Uganda) and David \t\tWarrilow (UK), was established.
NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND urged amending the mandates of other bodies if deemed inadequate, instead of creating a new institution.
The EU emphasized a collective target to reduce emissions by 30% below 1990 levels by 2020 and 80-90% by 2050.
On institutional arrangements, the EU called for the TEP to remain under the COP.
INDONESIA said the section should not rewrite or reinterpret the Convention.
 INDIA said that technology transfer was envisaged as a primary mover in the Convention\'s implementation, but the spotlight has shifted to the softer side of technology transfer such as capacity building and information networks.
Portugal, for the EU, \t\tstated that the EU is fully convinced of the urgency of enhancing \t\tinternational cooperation in order to rapidly accelerate the transfer of \t\tenvironmentally-sound technologies.
The EU, Norway, \t\tBangladesh, France and others expressed gratitude to the Russian \t\tFederation for ratifying the Protocol, and urged the Russian Federation \t\tto accept the draft decision on Article 3.9.
Some parties recommended that the text reflect the operationalization of support from the LDC Fund for the NAP process by COP 18.
On Principles, Australia, the Russian Federation, the US, Japan and New Zealand preferred not expressly providing for these in the text.
\t\tThey agreed to include a paragraph noting concerns by SIDS and some \t\tdeveloping countries on the lack of analysis of stabilization scenarios \t\tbelow 450 ppm.
The EU suggested focusing on measures to tackle barriers and provide benefits.
Nauru, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for LDCs, BARBADOS, GRENADA, SWITZERLAND, the EU, the US, MEXICO, SINGAPORE, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and COSTA RICA urged the adoption of the agenda as proposed.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said little time remained for this discussion and preferred the Chair 92s suggestion.
In the discussion that followed, SAUDI ARABIA said the composition of the expert review teams and issues relating to Article 3.14 still needed consideration.
On technical work to advance over the next year, NEW ZEALAND suggested requesting the Secretariat to synthesize parties’ submissions on this item around common themes.
Regarding the draft guidance for reporting on Global Climate Observation Systems (GCOS), the EU, with MONGOLIA, recommended that Annex I Parties prepare separate reports on global climate observation and include in their national communications a summary based on general reporting requirements.
MICRONESIA, with the BAHAMAS, highlighted urgency.
Some, including SENEGAL, focused on the GEF.
Highlighting the urgency of required actions, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, NORWAY and BOLIVIA, supported a single five-year commitment period.
  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) will hold its annual meeting and business forum from 15-16 May 2009, in London, UK.
On \t\tadditionality, TUVALU and others stressed the importance of accounting \t\tfor additionality, with BRAZIL recalling that projects imply emissions \t\tin Annex I Parties.
On Thursday, 5 November, the contact group on the financial mechanism, chaired by John Ashe (Antigua and Barbuda) and Dan Reifsnyder (US), met briefly and focused on procedural matters that would enable a decision to be reached.
The US suggested starting with guidelines under Article 7, as this would also progress those under Article 8.
BANGLADESH, TUVALU, EGYPT and GUATEMALA said they had yet to be contacted by the COP President for consultations and noted that they should be inclusive, transparent and include all major groups.
AUSTRALIA suggested a shared vision should be expressed as a brief objective.
Highlighting the vulnerability of LDCs, TANZANIA, for the LDCs, stressed the need for the entry into force of the Protocol and constructive work on matters relating to technology transfer, capacity building and LDCs.
The \t\tPHILIPPINES urged developed countries to engage in future commitments \t\tand MALDIVES also called for industrialized country leadership.
The US underscored the ancillary benefits of sequestration activities and said excluding these would violate the Convention.
The US tied negotiations on JI to the negotiation of "new aims" on strengthening of the Convention.
BELARUS outlined its proposal to amend Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol and expressed hope that a decision would be reached at this meeting.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the meeting in Panama represented an “important advance” towards Durban on issues such as mitigation, finance, technology and capacity building to enable discussions in Durban.
CHINA also cautioned AGBM not to “waste time” on issues related to institutions and definitions.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that “quite a few” elements of the G-77/China’s position seemed to be “conspicuously absent.” The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized that the document should be oriented towards “implementation on the ground.” With AUSTRALIA and BURKINA FASO, she also requested reference to particularly vulnerable states, including SIDS and LDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA urged the retention of bracketed text, rather than presenting different options.
CANADA proposed text suggesting that all parties prepare national inventory reports in accordance with IPCC guidance.
Canada, opposed by Switzerland and the EU, proposed deleting reference in the draft COP decision on awareness of international "environmental" agreements and leaving only "international agreements."
In October 1997, as AGBM-8 began, US President Bill Clinton called for "meaningful participation" by developing countries in the negotiating position he had announced in Washington.
On the CDM, PAPUA NEW GUINEA called for greater forest and biodiversity incentives.
e2 80 9d The EU and JAPAN, opposed by ECUADOR, considered specifying finance as e2 80 9cadequate and predictable e2 80 9d problematic.
The EU urged more progress on the discussions on LULUCF and the carryover of surplus AAUs.
NORWAY underscored compliance and targets in the context of funding mitigation in developing countries.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the group was: looking forward to further elaborate on adaption communications; viewed transparency on mitigation action as important to understand collective and individual goals; and recognized the GST as central in driving collective ambition.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, opposed.
SOUTH AFRICA, the SUDAN, BOLIVIA, MEXICO and MAURITANIA suggested that the CDM include the concept of emissions avoidance.
AOSIS highlighted the need for the mechanisms to be based on sound environmental principles.
\t\t\tBRAZIL, supported by NEW ZEALAND and others, called for recognition \t\t\tthat “issues related to degradation may be relevant” and, with INDIA \t\t\tand others, underscored efforts in developing countries.
On coastal adaptation technologies, AOSIS noted that financial and human resource limitations have stifled progress in adaptation and urged the development of long-term approaches under the FCCC.
The EU proposed further discussion on: how the UNFCCC can provide transparency; and catalyzing action in other multilateral bodies.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with SRI LANKA and THE GAMBIA, called on Parties to make resources available for institutional capacity enhancement and to expand the sphere of African countries participating in country studies.
Some looked to the big players, namely China and the EU, to carry on the torch of climate action.
The US suggested that the FCCC Secretariat consolidate a new version of the text discussed, in consultation with the Parties.
On risk reduction, the Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to speed up the pace of work on this issue.
The EU reiterated willingness to commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol in the context of a comprehensive global outcome.
The US proposed replacing references to developed or developing countries throughout the text be replaced with reference to new annexes y and x.
The AFRICAN GROUP said the framework should reflect indigenous knowledge and practice.
The EU stressed focusing on mitigation actions that are additional to those already in place and stressing transparency on complementary international cooperative initiatives.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said: Annex I commitments should take the form of nationwide targets; 1990 should remain the base year; LULUCF architecture should not change; and the share of proceeds should be extended to emissions trading and joint implementation as a source of funding for adaptation.
PAKISTAN stressed that closing the finance gap is just as important as closing the mitigation gap.
While the US, Japan and Germany supported the recommendations, there were suggestions for the disclosure form.
UGANDA and COLOMBIA preferred to utilize the Convention’s principles.
On commitments for support, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US, CANADA and others said all parties in a position to do so should provide support for the implementation of the new agreement.
COLOMBIA urged a balanced treatment of adaptation and mitigation technologies, noting the inadequacy of the treatment of adaptation technologies in the current text.
Norway, the UK and Hungary requested preparation of a revised detailed timetable reflecting how all three SRs and AR6 fit together.
This separation was a “win” for many small island developing states (SIDS), yet the explicit exclusion of liability and compensation in the decision was a disappointment to many, as the costs associated with loss and damage cannot be covered by risk insurance alone.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, noted: the usefulness of guiding questions to focus discussions on agenda items; the need to accelerate pre-2020 action; and the importance of coherence across all issues under the APA.
BRAZIL disagreed, as it was not mandatory to include vulnerability assessments in national communications.
TUVALU, SAMOA and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA urged postponing discussions until the remaining uncertainties relating to LULUCF had been addressed.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the overarching message from the political phase must be one of urgency, of more ambitious near-term action, and ensuring net-zero emissions and a phasing out coal by 2050.
The US cited another study indicating that, with multiple sectors considered, historical emissions from developing countries will exceed those of developed countries by 2020 and underscored that currently, emissions emitted every 12 years equal all historical emissions up to 1970.
The G-77/CHINA stressed capacity building and demonstration projects on technology transfer.
The US emphasized differentiation among parties, depending on changing social and economic conditions, as well as current emissions and emission trends.
The EU, supported by TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, ARGENTINA, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, GERMANY and the US, proposed requesting the IPCC to complete this work on the basis of these submissions in consultation with the Joint Working Group of officers of the FCCC and the IPCC.
The COP convened presidency consultations co-facilitated by Carlos Fuller (Belize) and Ian Lloyd (US).
JAPAN and the EU drew attention to their recent ratifications, and encouraged other Parties to follow suit.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group (a loose coalition of non-European Union developed countries) called for effective work programmes for 2009, and underscored the importance of the Article 9 review for Protocol parties.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, called for the development of performance indicators to monitor progress in implementing relevant COP decisions.
 \t\tMargaret Beckett, Secretary of State Department for Environment, Food \t\tand Rural Affairs, UK, pointed to the recent findings on climate change \t\timpacts in the Arctic and to the European heat-wave in 2003 as \t\tindicators that climate change is affecting both the developed and \t\tdeveloping world.
COP Rapporteur Maciej Sadowski (POLAND) introduced the report of the COP (FCCC/CP/1998/L.6 and Add.1).
VENEZUELA emphasized that “99% of the text” reflects proposals by developed countries on market mechanisms and stressed that the text should better reflect proposals by developing countries.
During the closing session of the subsidiary bodies on Saturday, 18 November, Co-Chair Uosukainen reported that the contact group had agreed on a framework that sets out the scope and basis for action in EITs, identifies EIT priorities, and outlines responsibilities of EITs in implementing the framework and those of Annex II Parties 96 industrialized Parties having financial and technology transfer commitments under the UNFCCC 96 in assisting EITs.
In response to a question by G-77/CHINA on how the financial issues will be resolved, Co-Chair Ashe said these would be discussed by the ministers next week.
On China 92s proposal to include a new section on the implications of Article 18 (non-compliance), the US said an amendment would be needed if binding consequences were to be adopted as part of the compliance system.
Returning later to the issue, JAPAN stressed the key importance he attaches to the issue.
The EU said that although there was a majority against it, the option of having a positive list of activities under the CDM should remain on the table.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by MAURITIUS for the G-77/ CHINA, said Parties should respect the "gentleman 92s agreement" with ICAO, and should only take up methodological issues further if ICAO considers that SBSTA has the expertise to do so.
KENYA said many African countries are experiencing excessive delays and linkage of projects to operational conditions not required by FCCC.
  GCF Board Co-Chair Henrik Harboe (Norway) highlighted key milestones including: nomination of 136 National Designated Authorities; accreditation of 20 entities to channel finance into action on the ground; and signed contribution agreements representing 58% of the initial US$10 billion in pledges.
On carry-over (banking) restrictions on Kyoto units, UKRAINE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and others supported no restrictions on banking beyond the second commitment period, while the LDCs, AOSIS, SUDAN and others preferred extending current restrictions to the subsequent commitment periods.
He urged that the debate on the AOSIS draft protocol begin at INC-11, with its subsequent adoption at the first COP.
CHINA underlined the Protocol’s importance and stressed the need to complete the AWG-KP’s work at COP/MOP 5.
TUVALU, with BRAZIL, \t\tsaid that CDM projects must be additional and not supported by official \t\tdevelopment assistance.
TUVALU \t\trequested bundled projects to be similar, to avoid baseline \t\tinconsistencies.
Highlighting domestic initiatives to bridge the emissions gap, UGANDA observed that adjustments towards low-carbon development need to begin with informed policies, while also maintaining the development objectives of developing countries.
During the SBI plenary, LDC Expert Group (LEG) Vice-Chair Fernandes Santana reported on progress since COP 23, and highlighted, inter alia, an expert meeting on national adaptation plans (NAPs), a successful NAP Expo, and two invitations to host future Expos.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a dedicated space before the COP to discuss the IPCC’s Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C and suggested concluding discussions on the Adaptation Fund at APA 1-6 in Bangkok for a decision at COP 24.
TUVALU, supported by BRAZIL, proposed compulsory accounting for forest biomass decline to ensure carbon stock losses do not go unaccounted for as a result of the definition of forest.
SUDAN stressed the right to full participation by all parties and the need to consult parties on scheduling.
AUSTRALIA said work should focus on substantial points of convergence on issues to be addressed in the work programme.
The EU called for: substantive conclusions on how the IPCC can support the global stocktake; a clear understanding on how the technology framework can help address fragmentation around existing processes aimed at facilitating technology transfer; and, with the Democratic Republic of the Congo for LDCs, deliverables for the five-year work plan.
Finland stressed the EU 92s efforts to achieve tangible results and show demonstrable progress by 2005.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, and supported by ZIMBABWE, BRAZIL and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, recalled the original willingness of the G-77 to apply but not accept the Chair\'s original proposals to allow the TAPs to begin.
With AUSTRALIA, he noted efforts by some oil-producing countries to set aside oil revenues to help mitigate the impacts of response measures.
On triggers, most countries, including Iran, New Zealand, Brazil, Pakistan and the US, highlighted the committee has to be self-triggered, while other options were also proposed.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed the importance of “common solidarity” of all countries.
MOZAMBIQUE urged financial support for implementing NAPAs and strengthening existing national focal points.NAMIBIA said developing countries must be allowed to expand their per-capita energy consumption.
Recognizing the important role of industry in implementation of the FCCC, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA endorsed the development of a business consultative mechanism, although CANADA opposed open access to NGOs on the floor during negotiations.
GRENADA stressed the importance of: having a process for considering the legal form; working under the AWG-LCA; and establishing a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
 The EU said that the 2015 agreement needs to be tested against whether it is individually and collectively fair and capable of delivering on the 2°C objective.
The EU proposed three types of reviews on: the long-term goal itself; whether parties are on track to meet the goal; and a comprehensive review of actions under the various building blocks.
The EU and the Federated States of Micronesia, opposed by Brazil, India and China, supported the inclusion and discussion of this issue.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said success in Durban depends on achieving balanced results based on the Convention’s principles, including common but differentiated responsibilities.
The US called for a review of the TEMs in 2016 to ensure continued relevance.
On sources of information, SAMOA suggested any source the compliance body deemed appropriate, while IRAN said Parties should be the only source.
Costa Rica, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean (AILAC), commended the Co-Chairs for their e2 80 9cbold and effective e2 80 9d work and said AILAC would e2 80 9ccontinue to build bridges.
CANADA advocated considering flexibility in the context of each specific requirement.
CHINA said developed countries must fulfill their legal obligations under the Convention to provide funding to developing countries.
The EU outlined four criteria: developed country leadership; ambitious and quantified reduction targets; urgency; and comparability based on balanced criteria.
The EU highlighted opportunities presented by climate change to create jobs that require higher skills, drawing on examples from historical precedents such as transitions in manufacturing, communications and information technology.
AUSTRALIA said this is not the proper place for discussions on this issue.
MALAYSIA, NICARAGUA and IRAN queried the change in the title of the elements document, emphasizing it remained a e2 80 9cnon-paper.
KENYA opposed any text on accompanying decisions at this stage.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underlined the importance of current transparency arrangements for pre-2020 action, and welcomed progress on adaptation, technology, capacity building and gender.
CROATIA said it did not consider it necessary for SBSTA to address this issue given that a technical review had already been carried out, and agreed with Chair Estrada 92s suggestion to take up both its issues simultaneously.
The Russian Federation, supported by the US and Brazil, proposed changing the Secretary to an Executive Secretary to raise the image and prestige of the Panel without creating confusion with the term “executive director,” which is often used in larger international organizations, such as UNEP.
IRAN suggested that the discussion on the way forward should occur in light of discussions in May 2017.
The US highlighted the need to maintain similar approaches on Articles 4 (joint fulfillment of commitments) and 17 (emissions trading), since both permit Parties to fulfill obligations collectively, and pointed out that Article 4 refers to transferor liability.
Highlighting that the proposal could be an “attractive compromise" for many parties, VENEZUELA suggested language requesting that “the Secretariat, under their own responsibility, prepare an informal technical paper.” SAUDI ARABIA, with OMAN, KUWAIT and QATAR, opposed the proposal for a technical paper and encouraged forwarding the item to future sessions.
The US responded that, after listening \t\tclosely to the interventions, she was heartened by the expressions of \t\tcommitment by developing countries and major emerging economies.
The EU said the Cancun Agreements must be implemented while addressing pending issues on the way to Durban.
The US emphasized IPRs were not a barrier but a catalyst for technology transfer, and said IPR critics were those very countries who have taken advantage of the IPR regime.
THAILAND emphasized mainstreaming risk management into national policies.
The G-77/CHINA, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, NORWAY, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others supported establishment of a focused spinoff group on this issue.
\t\tWhen the plenary reconvened on Saturday afternoon, the EU and several \t\tdeveloping countries said they could support India 92s proposal, while the \t\tUS stated that she could not accept this formulation.
The G-77/CHINA called for enhanced capacity building to implement CDM projects.
AUSTRALIA reported on domestic developments, including recent work towards carbon pricing.
SINGAPORE underscored that a Cancun outcome must: address the legal form and the need for a legally-binding agreement; and not hasten the “demise” of the Kyoto Protocol, but rather send a clear political signal regarding its continuation.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, noted some positive steps forward.
On Thursday, 11 June, ICELAND presented a revised proposal (FCCC/SBSTA/1998/MISC1/Add 4.)
AUSTRALIA said MRV needed further consideration, and that all actions should be subject to MRV.
The G-77/CHINA also proposed caps on LULUCF to ensure other sectors are addressed.
BURKINA FASO called on the IPCC to expand research on regional GHG emission limitations.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, and PAKISTAN said some of the elements contained in the annexes are “fundamental” and should therefore be reflected in the main text.
The EU said the rules of procedure would determine which sources of information were available to the compliance body.
The \t\tRUSSIAN FEDERATION called for a constructive dialogue and BELARUS said \t\tAnnex B should not be a 93closed club, 94 stressing his country 92s efforts \t\tto undertake emission reduction commitments.
HONDURAS, SAUDI ARABIA and HUNGARY argued against inclusion of nuclear power in the CDM.
The Agreement indicates that reporting in non-Annex I national communications on mitigation actions and their effects, as well as support received, is to be enhanced, with flexibility for LDCs and SIDS.
The EU and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported the proposal to address cross-cutting issues in the contact group.
The US, supported by JAPAN, proposed informal discussions in a spin-off group, with progress captured in reflection notes.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, urged that the consolidated text form the basis for negotiations.
On \t\t\ttext regarding atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases for \t\t\tthe last 10,000 years, the UK, supported by Germany, noted that the \t\t\tdraft figure on atmospheric concentrations (Figure SPM-1) only \t\t\tdepicts carbon dioxide levels over the last 10,000 years, and \t\t\tsuggested that the accompanying text reflect the fact that the \t\t\tpresent carbon dioxide concentration exceeds by far the natural \t\t\trange over the last 650,000 years.
The US noted that the GEF received little response from non-Annex I Parties when it requested information about their needs in preparing their national communications.
The US and AUSTRALIA suggested that methodological problems be identified during the inventory review stage.
AOSIS emphasized the human dimension of climate change and expressed concern with attempts to conflate adaptation funding with official development assistance.
The US, BOLIVIA, JAPAN, CHILE, MEXICO and COLOMBIA highlighted global goal and peaking of emissions as the focus of the group.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA called attention to countries’ respective capabilities.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the distinction between developed and developing countries’ reporting requirements and highlighted the close link between MRV of actions and MRV of support.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that due to the lack of time, the decisions should be "applied but not adopted," similar to the Rules of Procedure at COP 1.
The EU, with Switzerland, suggested that all three articles be discussed together, so as to reach a single decision.
In the SBI closing plenary, Spain, for the EU, emphasized that it was important for COP/MOP 6 to consider temporary provisions.
SINGAPORE and BRAZIL called for including text on an open international economic system and on parties not using trade measures that lead to arbitrary discrimination or constitute disguised trade restrictions.
During the discussion, participants focused on issues, including: differences between NAMAs and the EU’s proposed low-carbon development strategies; the scientific basis for EU’s figures of 15-30% reductions for developing countries, and whether this goal reflects the level of ambition from developed countries to finance incremental costs; which countries the EU considers as “advanced developing countries”; the role of carbon markets in NAMAs; the role of the NAMA registry in controlling finance; “MRVing” of NAMAs; the role of public funding; the sustainable development component of NAMAs; development of indicators; linkages between carbon markets and REDD; the use of regional and international expertise for verification; whether the registry would focus on actions or countries; and recognition of existing actions by developing countries.
CHINA stressed the \t\tneed to overcome tax, intellectual property and other barriers.
ITALY pointed out that the Convention does not include a compensation mechanism.
BRAZIL highlighted shortcomings of GWPs, stating that they overestimate the impact of methane.
SENEGAL stressed problems caused by the combination of climate change and population growth, highlighting land degradation and food security.
INDIA highlighted a recent workshop enhancing developing country capacity.
SWITZERLAND favored the establishment of a process to assess compliance with the protocol.
MEXICO, Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, BINGOs, INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ORGANIZATIONS, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS and CIVIL SOCIETY welcomed the outcome.
 On the paragraph concerning the adoption of policies and measures, SAUDI ARABIA called for language noting the need for further studies.
The EU disagreed with this position.
Nepal, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), called for the international community to respond to the needs and priorities of LDCs.
Italy, speaking for the EU, urged the US to take actions comparable to those that would have been expected from them under the Protocol.
Opposing the establishment of a spin-off group on adaptation, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, the EU and other developed countries pointed to progress and current work under other bodies on, inter alia, the Adaptation Committee, and loss and damage.
Noting differences in capacities and capabilities, China, for the LMDCs, opposed by the US, called for differentiation between developed and developing countries.
The ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) elaborated on setting and using crediting baselines.
The US emphasized that the compilation provides a useful overview of, inter alia, greenhouse gas emissions trends and national systems.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, called for stronger linkages between the TM and the financial mechanism.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said the SAR lacks a quantitative assessment of the permissible level of impact on the climate system.
Cuba, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), expressed concern about lack of progress on finance-related issues, including the 2025 finance goal.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of national communications, improved reporting and review of information, development and transfer of technology, and organization of intergovernmental meetings.
 SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA said the comments from Parties contained in document FCCC/AGBM/1997/2/Add.1 should be included in the Framework Compilation.
NEW ZEALAND opposed a "hands on" role for the COP/MOP and, with the EU, suggested that the COP/ MOP merely provide policy "background" to the compliance bodies.
The EU highlighted co-benefits and synergies with adaptation financing.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, with BANGLADESH and ERITREA, highlighted LDCs 92 difficulties in developing national communications and called on SBSTA to address financial support.
MEXICO said the complex rules are difficult to apply, and the INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES supported simplified procedures.
PAKISTAN called for a fast-track procedure for technology transfer, and SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the role of incremental costs and market mechanisms.
NIGERIA requested the deletion of a reference to the Geneva Ministerial Declaration, which calls for legally-binding QELROs for Annex I Parties within specified time-frames with respect to sources and removal of sinks of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol.
The US objected and said there were huge uncertainties surrounding the impact of response measures.
Highlighting “logical inconsistencies” between requesting the CDM EB and the JISC to “consider” the establishment of a joint accreditation mechanism and the mandate to “jointly develop and apply” the mechanism in the second paragraph, Brazil, initially opposed by the EU, asked the paragraph be deleted and brackets be removed from the first paragraph.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested a single work programme up to 2020 to ensure continuity and consistency and noted the nature of the work is influenced by timeframes in the Paris outcome decision.
BRAZIL raised concerns about HWPs in the context of the CDM, particularly relating to additionality.
On monitoring, the EU, supported by several Annex I countries, proposed an option consistent with its two-track approach.
TUVALU suggested that e2 80 9cincluding provisions on accounting e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cspecific needs of countries with special circumstances in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS e2 80 9d can be applied to all themes.
The EU and COSTA RICA favored approved third-party reviews and requested preparation of a workplan for AIJ reporting tasks.
The EU questioned why a timeframe for concluding a legally-binding agreement had been omitted from the text, stressing that while immediate action must be taken, the intention is not to establish “piecemeal mechanisms here and there” but to frame the institutions and the post-2012 architecture in a legally-binding instrument as soon as possible in 2010.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for efforts on: a global goal on greenhouse gas reductions and a timeframe for global peaking of emissions; means of implementation for developing countries, with finance and technology transfer through the institutions created in Cancun; and a system of clear rules and methodologies to promote environmental integrity.
NEW ZEALAND prioritized methods for assessing mitigation measures, projecting emissions and evaluating the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms.
With the US, he underlined the importance of building developing country capacity on vulnerability assessment.
 The EU noted a proposal to develop approaches and methodologies supporting the use of sustainably produced wood in replacing energy intensive materials and fossil fuels.
On Monday, 12 June, in a Joint SBI/SBTSA session, Romania, speaking on behalf of the Group of Eastern European Countries, and supported by the US, said JI and the CDM have distinct roles and should not be treated in the same way.
The EU proposed considering how to incorporate NAMAs into low-carbon development strategies, and called for a coordinating mechanism to operate a registry.
In the ensuing discussions, BOLIVIA expressed “deep concern” over a REDD+ market mechanism, noting the lack of measures for transparency and integrity.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, called on parties to fulfill the mandate of the BAP and to reject attempts to shift responsibility onto developing countries.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP (EIG), underscored the need for methodological work on REDD+.
Delegates agreed to a suggestion from the US to refer to the larger “aggregate” risks associated with global warming that exceeds 1.5 c2 b0C.
CHINA noted that Annex I Parties are committed to assisting developing countries through technology transfer and financial assistance, but this has not been highlighted in the documents revision.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for all major emitting countries to participate in a future global agreement.
CHINA supported spin-off groups on finance and response measures.
He said that spin-off groups would address: preamble and purpose/general (draft Article 2 and 2bis), co-facilitated by George Wamukoya (Kenya) and Diann Black-Layne (Antigua and Barbuda); mitigation (draft Article 3, 3bis and 3ter), co-facilitated by Franz Perrez (Switzerland) and Fook Seng Kwok (Singapore); adaptation, and loss and damage (draft Articles 4 and 5) co-facilitated by Andrea Guerrero (Colombia) and Georg B c3 b8rsting (Norway);finance (draft Article 6), co-facilitated by Georg B c3 b8rsting (Norway) and Diann Black-Layne (Antigua and Barbuda); technology development and transfer (draft Article 7), co-facilitated by Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu (Democratic Republic of Congo) and Artur Runge-Metzger (EU); capacity building (draft Article 8), co-facilitated by Artur Runge-Metzger (EU) and Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu (Democratic Republic of Congo); transparency (draft Article 9), co-facilitated by Fook Seng Kwok (Singapore) and Franz Perrez (Switzerland); global stocktake (draft Article 10), co-facilitated by Roberto Dondisch (Mexico) and George Wamukoya (Kenya); implementation and compliance, and final clauses (draft Article 11 and Articles 12-26), co-facilitated by Sarah Baashan (Saudi Arabia) and Aya Yoshida (Japan); and workstream 2, co-facilitated by Aya Yoshida (Japan) and George Wamukoya (Kenya).
 \t\t\tRoger Street, UK Climate Impacts Programme, gave an overview of the \t\t\tUK experience on adaptation planning and practices.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), and South Africa lamented that the procedures of accreditation remain too complex.
ETHIOPIA said pressure for voluntary commitments would undermine the FCCC process.
CHINA noted the preference of some parties for an implementation branch and inquired about the scope of a compliance branch.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment at the pace of work throughout the week and said that the need for fair and equitable access to financial resources is becoming more urgent.
On the title of the text, the US favored a reference to "procedures and mechanisms related to compliance under the Kyoto Protocol," since there are other provisions in the Protocol dealing with compliance.
ALBA called for an urgent decision on financial resources noting that the financial mechanism cannot be an “empty shell.” COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS expressed concern over the lack of funding for the implementation of REDD+ activities, and failure to provide new and additional fast-start financial support.
NIGERIA expressed concerns over cross-cutting issues needing to be resolved, including the eligibility requirement in relation to the compliance system.
New Zealand, with the US, emphasized the importance of the regional chapters under WG II.
CHINA stressed IPRs should not be a fundamental obstacle for fulfilling developed countries’ commitments on technology transfer.
Brazil, for BRAZIL, ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, supported developing textual elements and suggested distinguishing which elements need to be agreed in 2018 from those that can be addressed later.
On paragraph 4, Brazil, for BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Iran, for the LMDCs, the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, and INDONESIA, supported annexing the informal notes to the conclusions.
SWITZERLAND favored a draft decision outlining actions for presentation to COP-8.
Summarizing the discussion, President Pronk said further unanswered questions on adverse effects related to how to give substance to the request for compensation on Article 3.14 and how to organize special facilities for LDCs.
TURKEY supported the establishment of a new forum while enhancing existing channels, such as national communications.
The US stressed: diversity is in the actions themselves, not in whether a party acts; that universal participation, new technologies and linking climate policy to development, among other things, encourage more action; and a flexible instrument that stands the test of time.
CANADA said future reviews should cover the effect of actions by all Parties over time and that SBSTA should provide scientific and technical information for such a review.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested noting that the APA will require additional time for work in 2017.
The G-77/CHINA underscored the significance of capacity building.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, underscored the need to operationalize the LDC Fund in the short term to support immediate and urgent needs.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter requirements than Annex I countries.
COLOMBIA said means of implementation were fundamental for delivering action, and called for predictability and clear signals of support.
The G-77/CHINA preferred beginning substantive negotiations, saying clustering would naturally follow from those discussions.
CANADA underscored a single agreement including all major emitters, and said a balanced package would be built on the framework of the Cancun Agreements and would enhance transparency through an effective MRV framework.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for a clear link between a quantitative financial goal and temperature goal.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said continuity of the Kyoto Protocol is a condition for any agreement under the AWG-LCA, noting the need to keep the two negotiating tracks separate.
The US accepted this, but reiterated that the text does not inspire confidence in the GEF.
BRAZIL and TUVALU underscored the technical challenges of defining soil carbon and measuring fluxes in the proposals.
The EU said that text should not include new proposals, but that new proposals should be communicated during meetings in the presence of parties, rather than through indirect communication of submissions.
The G-77/CHINA requested the inclusion of a paragraph \t\tpointing to the availability of GEF funding to support Article 6 \t\tactivities in non-Annex I Parties.
COLOMBIA suggested that the vulnerability of developing nations, rather than their commitments, be discussed.
CHINA said rules and methodologies should be based on the Marrakesh Accords, and highlighted energy efficiency, renewable energy, and technology as important issues.
The US said that a decision to close the AWG-LCA is not needed, but that a formal decision would be required to extend it.
SAUDI ARABIA said TEMs should address adaptation.
The Netherlands, on behalf of the European Union (EU), presented a proposal on enhancing the observer status of the European Community (EC) as a regional economic integration organization (REIO).
Belize, for SICA, called for all parties to work constructively on a balanced text centered around CBDRRC.
Regarding text on carbon pools, TUVALU and the EU opposed inclusion of harvested wood products, while NORWAY supported their inclusion but noted that the issue would be discussed at SBSTA-14.
She said financing must come from multiple sources and be effective, efficient and accountable, and, with the EU and others, urged scaling up of support.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for Durban to deliver a clear and ambitious mandate to negotiate a legally-binding agreement under the Convention and a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US expressed concern on changing the existing language and noted that the SBI could not “tie the hands” of the COP.
94 Stressing the scientific nature of the SPM, Japan, UK \t\t\tand others opposed alternative formulations.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and other developed countries preferred a single eight-year commitment period with flexibility on reference years.
Delegates accepted a US compromise allowing participation unless the group objects.
Emphasizing the need to address a variety of actions by all parties in the 2015 agreement, the EU, Switzerland and the US opposed language applying only to developed countries.
Emphasizing that the final report of the structured expert dialogue (SED) “sends a very clear signal that the 2 c2 b0C limit is inadequate,” Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that a “handful of countries” did not engage to reach a substantive outcome on the review.
Highlighting the bifurcated structure of the current MRV framework under the Convention as a starting point, China, with Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and the Philippines, stressed that differentiation should be embedded systematically in the structure of the framework, not as a varying aspect of each element.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by KIRIBATI, MALAYSIA, NIGERIA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, THAILAND, INDIA and TANZANIA, said fulfillment of developing countries’ commitments depends on the provision of resources and technology transfer and is the basis for all negotiations, including AGBM discussions.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said the group expects Annex B parties to reconsider their commitments, making every effort to increase them with a view to eliminating the pre-2020 mitigation gap.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said that since most AIJ projects are financed though official funds like ODA and the GEF, credits certification should be treated carefully.
BOLIVIA called for including historical responsibility and the right to development.
With the US, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA said debates on conceptual issues should not impede progress of the work programme.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for adaptation and massively scaled-up and predictable funding.
Parties discussed the EU’s proposal for a “bar approach” to account for forest management.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that some mitigation actions, such as addressing energy efficiency, do not fall under the mandates of existing multilateral bodies, and suggested the CTCN could work on energy efficiency issues.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a “climate effective” outcome and said current discussions should not prejudice any future discussions as this was only the beginning of a long conversation.
INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA called for technical papers.
After CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and COLOMBIA, objected to joint implementation and tradable emission permits in a paragraph on mechanisms to promote flexibility, the US inserted an additional reference to specify Annex I Parties.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for balanced progress on all items, no reinterpretation of the Convention, and “no artificial separation between technical and political.” He stressed as important, inter alia: pre-2020 action and ambition; progress in finance-related items; a decision that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement; advancing on adaptation communicaton guidance; and time allocated to equity under the GST.
Responding to ZIMBABWE, IRAN noted that its proposed compensation mechanism is designed to compensate countries that incur losses due to polices and measures stipulated by the AGBM legal instrument and does not provide funds for countries that incur damages resulting directly from climate change.
\t\tThe US argued that the item had been dealt with, even though conclusions \t\thad not been agreed, since the original request from COP 10 was simply \t\tthat the Secretariat report to SBSTA 22 on the SIDS International \t\tMeeting.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the need for guidance on adaptation communications in NDCs.
AUSTRALIA said a staged approach should apply to every issue and that there could be a three-month time limit for the facilitation process relating to eligibility in order to ensure timeliness.
David Warrilow, Department of Energy and Climate Change, UK, identified key challenges, such as: describing the impacts of different levels of temperature rise; identifying critical tipping points; clarifying risks and damages; and considering negative effects on human security.
SINGAPORE praised the workshop as a good first step.
Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, underlined the importance of comparability to assess developed countries’ efforts relative to each other and aggregate, and cited a lack of harmonized rules and differences in adoption of single and multi-year carbon budgets as impeding comparability.
Egypt, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), noted concern that no substantive conclusions were reached on the CGE, and highlighted the importance of renewing the Group’s terms of reference at COP 24.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BRAZIL and SAINT LUCIA, and opposed by KAZAKHSTAN and BELARUS, proposed deleting option 4, which states that Article 3.7ter refers to the preceding commitment period of that party.
The G-77/CHINA said its proposal was an initial one, as not all its members had been consulted.
The EU called for consideration of how to manage inputs.
EIG, the EU, and the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested more complex tasks be given more time.
ARGENTINA stressed the need to learn from past experiences with market mechanisms, in particular the CDM, in order to prevent host countries from taking risks and financing mitigation, ensure co-benefits for developing countries and prevent market distortions.
JAPAN called for extending the NWP based on its cumulative achievement in improving understanding of adaptation.
CHINA, INDIA and SINGAPORE, opposed by the US, suggested that India’s proposal relating to prohibiting unilateral trade measures against exports from developing countries should also be included in the preambular part of the shared vision section.
On the length and number of commitment periods and base year, the G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS and the AFRICAN GROUP, preferred a single five-year commitment period with a base year of 1990.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, put forward an initial list of suggestions for the TAPs concerning timing, carbon cycles, associated impacts of climate change, assistance for the development of national capabilities and adaptation measures.
The EU called for, inter alia: reviewing changes necessary to the rules of procedure of the JI Supervisory Committee (JISC); providing a mandate to the JISC for third-party review; and taking concerns of stakeholders into account.
On mitigation (Article 3), BOLIVIA, with VENEZUELA, urged the inclusion of non-market mechanisms.
Many parties noted agreement on the continuation of the Convention principles, with: CHINA stressing CBDR; BARBADOS and NORWAY highlighting the precautionary principle; and the US suggesting that principles need to evolve to reflect changing circumstances and capabilities.
After the EU \t\tand all other parties had accepted this language, the US agreed to join \t\tthe consensus, and the decision on long-term action under the Convention \t\twas adopted.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed adding “empty lines” to invite new countries.
However, the US and other developed countries indicated that 2°C, not 1.5°C, was the limit agreed by leaders under the Copenhagen Accord.
PANAMA and BELIZE, with Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to respect the diversity among NDCs.
QATAR and others said CCS should be approved in Copenhagen.
SWITZERLAND suggested establishing a flexible plan \t\tof work to be completed in 2007 and using information contained in \t\tnational reports.
The US proposed that Parties be able to raise questions regarding another Party 92s implementation only with respect to the facilitative branch.
Maldives, for AOSIS, underscored that ongoing work among parties would result in new language on loss and damage.
VENEZUELA said the impact of implementation must be addressed.
TANZANIA suggested establishing FCCC collaborating centers in developing countries for information purposes and capacity building.
\t\tDelegates discussed the timing of a review, and MOROCCO, supported by \t\tNIGERIA, called for the establishment of a working group to consider the \t\tissue.
He said Annex II Parties preferred to retain the thrust of the COP-4 decision with flexibility, allowing small island developing States (SIDS) and LDCs to receive funding based solely on their vulnerability.
The EU added that the small island States face a physical threat, whereas the OPEC countries face only economic adjustments like every other Party.
 Ecuador, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), outlined that COP 23 needs to achieve progress on, inter alia: the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue; work on loss and damage; financial support for the Warsaw International Mechanism on loss and damage associated with climate change impacts (WIM); an outcome on the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement; and clarifying eligibility criteria for the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the GCF.
The PHILIPPINES proposed that parties should learn from existing efforts in REDD implementation.
The EU and JAPAN stressed co-ordination of existing sources of funding.
AUSTRALIA stressed the impact of “broader and deeper" carbon markets for the level of ambition.
INDIA stressed that ODA financing is discretionary while climate change finance should be assessed based on clear acknowledgement of historical responsibility.
CHINA cautioned against creating two groups of Parties that had ratified the Protocol: one group with, and the other without, the compliance procedure.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, CANADA, SWITZERLAND and the US said the existing capacity-building framework is sufficient.
Country representatives highlighted: the US$27 billion Dubai Green Fund; Hungary’s support to partner countries’ NDC implementation; and Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050 and a new US$50 million contribution to the Adaptation Fund.
The Chair introduced document A/AC.237/91/Add.1, which contains the text of proposals tabled at INC-11 by the G-77 and China, the EU and the US.
Ireland, for the EU, stressed the importance of decoupling economic growth and emissions, said renewables are a priority, and noted that technology transfer can occur on South-South and North-South bases.
NEW ZEALAND underscored the theme of equity, questioned assumptions about curbing the growth in emissions, and highlighted the sectoral approach.
 The G-77/CHINA and AFRICAN GROUP urged agreement on terms of reference for development of performance indicators submitted by the EGTT.
NORWAY, on behalf of a group of countries and supported by the US, recalled a non-paper on emissions trading distributed by the group last week, and the package of four mechanisms agreed in Kyoto.
 : Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the negotiations to be party-driven, transparent and inclusive.
Sweden, for the European Union (EU), noted that their pledge to reduce emissions by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020 is contingent on an international agreement.
The OECD noted the challenges of using EIAs as a vehicle for integrating adaptation, as EIAs address project impacts on the environment and what is required for the purposes of adaptation is assessing the environmental impacts on the project.
The US also recognized that his country’s existing policies will not be enough to reach the emission reduction target, and that since the proposed federal legislation did not pass, work is underway to implement alternative measures.
SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA suggested weighing the pros and cons of commitment period options.
The EU underlined its strong belief that an agreement ensuring environmental integrity and equity would be reached by the end of the week.
The EU requested that the annexes reflect the proposals as originally submitted.
The G-77/China opposed an EU proposal that funding \t\tshall 93support technical assistance.
SAUDI ARABIA said preparations were needed for all Protocol articles, not just the flexibility mechanisms.
On the Overall Approach, the G-77/CHINA proposed Agenda 21 language on technology transfer, while the US preferred language from FCCC Article 4.5.
On sources of funding, Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed assessed contributions starting at 1.5 % of developed countries’ Gross National Income as the primary basis of funding.
SIERRA LEONE expressed concern that the text did not reflect priorities of the LDCs.
NEW ZEALAND also favored an appeal from the expedited procedure.
AUSTRIA, \t\tAUSTRALIA and others expressed concern that the language implied greater \t\ttechnical maturity and scientific analysis on ocean storage than \t\tactually exists.
 Regarding the composition of the Bureau, SAUDI ARABIA said that the rules of procedure cannot be "applied" forever.
CHINA, supporting INDIA and the LMDCs, called for equal treatment of the two workstreams launched in 2012 and lamented the fact that the Doha Amendment had yet to enter into force.
CHINA, supported by the US, called for language rejecting credits for AIJ emissions reductions during the pilot phase.
Specific issues examined included the economic potential of \t\tmitigation options (such as carbon sequestration in forestry in the US), \t\tindustry partnerships as an example of successful approaches in the \t\tAustralian agricultural sector, and no-tillage as an important practice \t\tfor soil carbon sequestration in the US.
JAPAN stressed that while their new pledge is relative to a 1990 base year, there should be flexibility to choose other base years to facilitate the participation of the broadest number of countries.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged the SBI to fulfill its mandate to review the implementation of the Convention, including Annex I parties’ emission reduction efforts.
On flexibility, countries discussed how to operationalize flexibility, and many developed and developing countries called for consideration of differing capacities among developing countries, particularly LDCs and SIDS.
On bunker fuels, CANADA noted that the drafting group had produced consolidated text with different options, in the form of clusters.
On the  , the G-77/China, supported by AOSIS and the African Group, preferred a single five-year commitment period with a base year of 1990.
The EU noted \t\tthe positive informal consultation in Bali last week on the Adaptation \t\tFund, and the LDCs said the Fund needs an independent secretariat and \t\tmanagement structure.
Parties could not agree on providing guidance on the Special Climate Change Fund to the financial mechanism for now, and agreed on an EU proposal to consider Party submissions and discussions at SB-18 and a decision at COP-9.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, proposed not limiting discussions to the draft decision forwarded from Lima.
The Chair, supported by IRAN, said these concerns are better addressed when considering QELROs.
Slovenia, for the EU, predicted that further discussions will be difficult, and underscored the need to be innovative and open-minded to achieve an ambitious level of emission reductions.
The LDCs, the EU, Costa Rica, Chile, Colombia and Peru encouraged developing countries to put forward NAMAs.
 The EU did not support the groupings proposed by the Chair and noted they were difficult to distinguish.
He stressed that a leadership role for the US would help ensure its ability to provide critical services to the Panel.
NEW ZEALAND stressed consideration of MRV for all countries through a common but different framework.
INDIA, supported by BOTSWANA and BHUTAN, pointed to the need to address information gaps.
BARBADOS urged for further implementation of decision 1/CP.10 by: considering within adaptation activities the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States; promoting the review and strengthening of LDC´s NAPAs; and increased financial support for national institutional arrangements on adaptation.
 MICRONESIA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, expressed concern about channeling GEF funds and urged that higher priority be given to adaptation methodology.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA added that expert review teams should focus on identifying solutions to obstacles in preparing communications and sharing experiences.
IRAN noted the absence of criteria for assessing and elaborating the benefits of AIJ projects and said these were subject to different interpretations.
CHINA highlighted that a strict compliance system should be based on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8, and that Annex I Parties ef bf bd reports should include information on Protocol Articles 10 (existing commitments) and 11 (financial mechanism), including in relation to additional financial resources.
AUSTRALIA and other delegations noted the need for continuous feedback between the JWG and other contact groups to avoid overlap and contradictions on substantive rules.
AUSTRALIA noted that Annex I countries had the capacity to make adequate carbon measurements, and that the quality was continually improving.
LIBYA expressed hope that the international community would prevent adverse economic impacts from response measures.
AOSIS called for an immediate reduction in global emissions of 50-80%.
The US urged the CGE to provide specific advice on the guidelines and report on it at SB-14.
OPEC stated that the IPCC “broke the rules” by implying consensus among scientists in its conclusions.
MARSHALL ISLANDS, with \t\tMICRONESIA, noted that the programme does not deliver adaptation \t\tprojects.
  Andrew Ure (Australia) and Balisi Justice Gopolang (Botswana) will co-chair a contact group on the process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement NAPs, and modalities and guidelines for LDCs and other developing countries.
On ratification of the Protocol, NEW ZEALAND announced its intention to ratify in time for the WSSD, adding that it was currently the only Umbrella Group Party to have made such a commitment, although he predicted that it "will be in good company before too long."
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for an ambitious and balanced new text focusing on emission reduction targets.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, was in favor of holding informal consultations during AGBM 2.
The EU, US and JAPAN supported this proposal, while SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZULA opposed it.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged further progress on research and systematic observation to strengthen institutions in LDCs, SIDS and African countries.
The US noted that Article 8.2(c) empowers the Secretariat to provide support to Parties and urged delegates to keep an open mind.
Parties made textual proposals and indicated their preferences with regard to paragraphs on, inter alia: a request to the GEF to ensure its policies and procedures for consideration and review of funding proposals are followed, or a request that the GEF support climate projects in its seventh replenishment period; and the operationalization of the Capacity-building Initiative for Transparency (CBIT) and an encouragement/request to the GEF to assist/provide adequate resources to all developing countries, in particular the LDCs and SIDS, to help them access resources from the CBIT.
AUSTRALIA said the objective of the proposed adaptation framework is to galvanize greater attention and action at all levels in order to minimize the effects of climate change.
CHINA asked if this was fair and requested its deletion.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for the inclusion of three options on how to take forward work relating to the possible additional matter of modalities for communicating finance information in accordance with Agreement Article 9.5 (ex-ante finance transparency).
94 In particular, she thanked fellow EGTT members Thomas Verheye of the European Commission and Elmer Holt of the US for their efforts in making this workshop a success.
The EU, New Zealand, Singapore, Micronesia and others supported the IMO’s work.
The US said there is not adequate time to accommodate the request and the extra two weeks is important for providing thoughtful comments.
The EU suggested the inclusion of a section on the role of parties in the work programme.
OMAN emphasized that work should continue under two tracks.
The EIG and the EU called for a two-day workshop.
The EU said that although the annexes are useful, the core issues should be captured in the main text.
The US and other developed countries seem willing to recognize these efforts but are calling for a more formal framework for measuring and reporting mitigation actions in developing countries.
The US proposed additional text that non-Annex I Parties should submit national greenhouse gas inventories every two years, with LDCs submitting their inventories with their national communications.
NORWAY noted that the removal of subsidies is particularly pertinent to creating market incentives for environmentally sound behavior.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged the Co-Facilitators’ notes to be “significantly more advanced” in their next iteration, and said any additional negotiating session before COP 24 must focus on the PAWP.
Noting readiness to enter into negotiations, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, urged addressing “crux” issues quickly.
The EU stated that consideration of this issue by the SBSTA is premature, while BRAZIL stressed problems caused by the use of global warming potentials, saying this has misguided mitigation efforts.
Samoa, \t\ton behalf of the G-77/CHINA, called for specific, action-oriented \t\tlanguage.
The US and Singapore indicated that there are other avenues to discuss IPRs.
The US questioned the need for this in light of the Buenos Aires programme of work.
 Martin Aub c3 a9, Canada, and Matthew Billson, UK, shared their countries e2 80 99 experiences with CCS.
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern over the lack of adaptation funding and the fragmentation of programmes and funds.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CANADA supported work on inventories for sources of new technologies and gap identification.
 MALAYSIA: Dato’ Abu Bakar Daud, Deputy Minister of Science, Technology and Environment, called it “regrettable” that the AGBM is still exchanging views and is unable to narrow down policies and measures.
The G-77/CHINA recommended that its paper be the basis for future negotiations.
Bolivia, for ALBA, noted the need for balance among the multiple agenda items, and the pillars of mitigation, adaptation, MOI and capacity building.
SAUDI ARABIA urged that the consolidated text form the basis for negotiations, and emphasized the need to include all proposals.
ARMENIA called for a study of methane emissions from municipal dumps and work on the use of municipal refuse as fuel.
The PHILIPPINES stressed that the numbers must have a context, otherwise “we may as well hang up a dartboard and throw darts” at numbers.
 CHINA expressed dismay that Parties were suggesting more policies and measures at this stage.
AUSTRALIA supported the text.
 CANADA said the IPCC SAR suggests that significant opportunities are available for Parties to take actions, so it is important to identify P&amp;M that reinforce the positive relationship between economics and the environment, such as energy efficiency and pollution controls.
KENYA said the report does not say which concentrations could be dangerous and asked if this represented a scientific fact or a policy position.
However, SAUDI ARABIA, with INDIA, VENEZUELA, ALGERIA, KUWAIT, OMAN, NIGERIA, ECUADOR and CHINA, opposed a contact group and preferred that the COP President or a Vice-President hold informal consultations.
The possibility for the Compliance Committee to receive questions of implementation submitted by a Party with respect to another Party was supported by the G-77/China and EU, and opposed by Australia and the Russian Federation.
Noting proposals for new forums on potential consequences under the SBI, SBSTA and AWG-LCA, the EU and NEW ZEALAND recommended joint discussions to ensure language in the texts is not contradictory.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, highlighted that 45 countries have submitted their NAPAs and urged for support to implement these NAPAs.
\t\tThe US, CANADA, INDIA and others objected to EU-proposed text linking \t\tclimate change and sea-level rise to the Millennium Review in September \t\t2005.
Delegates observed a minute of silence as a mark of respect for the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in the US.
AUSTRALIA urged moving to outstanding issues, saying this should be done at the ministerial level.
BELGIUM emphasized the link between FCCC negotiations and those at the CSD and said the Special Session of the General Assembly will be the “moment of truth.” SRI LANKA stressed the need for sustained economic growth and alleviation of poverty when reviewing the implementation of the Convention.
BRAZIL stressed use of CERs in the context of the CORSIA under the ICAO.
BOLIVIA called for an analysis to determine if project-by-project or regional/sectoral baselines would be appropriate.
AUSTRALIA, with the EU and the US, noted that they had agreed to consider a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 on the understanding that it would be a “joint” workshop with 1/CP.10, but that it could be worded as either a workshop where the issues were “considered together” or “back-to-back.” SAUDI ARABIA underscored that distinct issues should not be linked.
On \t\tenvironmental and social impacts, JAPAN stressed that impact assessments \t\tshould be at the request of host governments.
AUSTRALIA underscored that deeper and broader access to international carbon markets is essential for increasing the level of ambition.
Highlighting repercussions of response measures, SAUDI ARABIA called for adaptation projects that enhance economic diversification.
INDIA said the proposal recalled more articles of the Convention than the GEF-adopted annex.
The EU also proposed an interim target for 2005.
The US stressed eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in environmental goods and services.
Following informal consultations, AUSTRALIA proposed, and parties supported, holding a workshop promoting risk management approaches to address impacts of response measures and that it be held back-to-back, if possible, with other workshops relevant to developing country concerns surrounding impact of response measures.
AUSTRALIA suggested considering institutional arrangements and MRV as crosscutting issues, while BARBADOS expressed concern with the latter suggestion.
 On section H, BRAZIL proposed that parties include a technology component in their national contributions.
COLOMBIA, for several Latin American countries, lamented slow progress under the AWG-LCA.
COLOMBIA stressed referencing leadership of developed countries under the Convention, with BRAZIL noting confusion in the text between mobilization of finance and support for developing countries.
El Salvador, for SICA, called for direct contributions to the Adaptation Fund from all the flexibility mechanisms
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES underscored, inter alia: adaptation and further operationalizing the Green Climate Fund (GCF).
Korea, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, stated that market and non-market approaches should be guided by principles of transparency, environmental integrity and avoiding double counting while considering the diversity of NDCs.
  On this issue (FCCC/SBI/2008/4), POLAND and Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer said they are cooperating to ensure adequate and affordable accommodation for COP 14 and COP/MOP 4.
BOLIVIA, CHILE and MALAYSIA \t\t\tagreed that size was not the only problem, but believed there was \t\t\tenough experience concerning difficulties with developing projects \t\t\tto merit a revision of the limit.
MOZAMBIQUE said LDCs with limited private sectors need capacity building to participate in the technology-transfer process.
El Salvador, for SICA, emphasized the need to operationalize the GCF in Durban.
ZIMBABWE, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 were long overdue for implementation.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that parties reserved the right to reevaluate progress on numbers at the end of each day.
On bundling, Bolivia, opposed by \t\tAOSIS, Brazil, the EU and China, suggested consolidating various \t\tsmall-scale projects.
The PHILIPPINES accepted the first Canadian amendment but preferred to retain "individual" without brackets, with the addition of a specific reference to the Convention.
GUYANA called for adequate and predictable financing for early action on REDD+ and long-term initiatives led by Annex I countries, and, with SINGAPORE, emphasized the need for a clear understanding on the final outcome of the AWG-LCA.
Obasi, Secretary General of the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO); Elizabeth Dowdeswell, Executive Director of the UN Environment Programme (UNEP); Bert Bolin, Chair of the IPCC; Mohamed El-Ashry, Chair and CEO of the GEF; Robert Priddle, Executive Director of the International Energy Agency of the OECD; Anders Wijkman, UN Development Programme (UNDP); and Assad Kotaite, Executive Director of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
JAPAN preferred focusing on other means, saying the proposed fee could discourage JI activities.
CHINA suggested a new paragraph stating that an MCP’s function should be “to provide assistance to Parties in relation to difficulties they encounter in the course of implementation including: (1) clarification of questions and (2) assistance to the developing countries Parties in accordance with Article 12.7 (relating to technical and financial support).” The EU noted that the paragraphs on objective and on functions are overlapping and proposed a new paragraph on an MCP’s mandate, which “repacked” the existing elements in a different format.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), highlighted the challenge of producing outcomes that provide for immediate action in all countries and lay the groundwork for completing unfinished work in South Africa.
CHILE said several developing countries were making serious efforts to limit GHG emissions and favored an exchange of views on voluntary cooperation, without entailing binding obligations or ignoring the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
On the annex (complementary information on INDCs), PANAMA requested that the role of forests be recognized and called for reference to considerations on bioenergy.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to take into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, highlighting that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter obligations concerning national communications than Annex I countries.
CHINA suggested, as an alternative, taking “full” account of the views expressed.
The US supported a two-track approach \t\tand the formation of a working group.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, said the committee could facilitate implementation of both legally-binding and aspirational elements.
SAUDI ARABIA supported Singapore on the centrality of national circumstances, and added that any country’s contribution “is, has been and will be nationally-driven.”
Elina Bardram (the EU) and Wondwossen Sintayehu (Ethiopia) will co-chair a contact group.
Colombia and the EU suggested the Secretariat compile INDCs in a report.
On the way forward, the EU proposed an in-session workshop, and submissions or an examination of best practices.
FRANCE, on behalf of the EU, stressed that domestic actions should be the main means for fulfilling developed country commitments.
On the draft COP/ MOP-1 decision related to Article 5.2 (adjustments), the US suggested that adjustments applying to a Party 92s base-year inventory estimates could not be replaced by revised estimates subsequent to the establishment of a Party 92s initial assigned amounts.
 On this item (FCCC/SBI/2008/2), AOSIS emphasized the need to minimize time and resources spent on monitoring and evaluating capacity building.
On time management, Egypt, for the G-77/China, expressed hope that the additional session would cover PAWP items under all three bodies.
In discussing the G-77/China proposal, delegates highlighted, inter alia: the inclusion of EITs in capacity-building activities (EU, KAZAKHSTAN); that capacity building be 93for, 94 93by 94 and 93in 94 developing countries (the PHILIPPINES); the need for a coordinated response among existing efforts in capacity building (CANADA); the lack of utility in holding short workshops, as developing countries need continuous ones (CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC); and the identification of non-Annex I Parties 92 needs by analyzing their national communications (EU).
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to complete the work on the technical building blocks for REDD+ actions, particularly MRV and national forest monitoring systems.
CANADA stressed the need to explore the feasibility of introducing an index, noting that the IPCC is not the body to discuss how it is done.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed the finalization of rules for the second commitment period.
CANADA suggested the non-paper be attached as an annex to the conclusions.
The US, \t\t\tsupported by India and the UK, cautioned against including averaged \t\t\tenergy use per unit of GDP for Annex I and non-Annex I countries, \t\t\tsuggesting that these numbers hide regional disparities.
The EU, supported by Japan, Canada, Malaysia, AOSIS, Norway, Switzerland and Australia, but opposed by Saudi Arabia, suggested holding a workshop on the implications of the TAR for the work of the SBSTA.
On Friday, delegates were briefed on three bilateral support programmes funded by Canada, Finland, and the US.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized CBDR and developed countries’ subsidies.
He said the first would address adaptation for all but \t\tparticularly LDCs, SIDS and Africa.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, nominated Mr. Tuiloma Neroni Slade (Samoa).
Highlighting mitigation as the core of the e2 80 9cINDCs mandate, e2 80 9d POLAND urged participation by all parties in putting forward contributions.
Japan \t\thighlighted the benefits of various adaptation actions, while the UK \t\temphasized the need to bring the users and producers of climate \t\tinformation together at the regional and national levels.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said his country was in consultation with the UNEP, UNDP and the Commission on Sustainable Development with a view to scheduling an expert group meeting on technology transfer in Seoul in February 1998.
Lesotho, for the least developed countries (LDCs), called for decisions on research and systematic observation for LDCs to focus on strengthening institutions through revived consideration of a LDC work programme.
On Other Provisions, the G-77/CHINA suggested requesting the Secretariat to prepare possible options for the adoption of procedures and mechanisms related to compliance.
Monday evening the entire text was agreed in the contact group, following editorial changes by the EU, G-77/China and New Zealand.
The US said only that it supported the need to consider the need to consider "new aims" through negotiations under the SBI for the post-2000 period, generally avoiding the word "protocol."
Referring to newly industrialized countries, the US expressed interest in exploring ways to move beyond the static world created by the Annex I list.
 David Warrilow (UK) presented the results of the Report on the Reinforcement of the IPCC Secretariat (IPCC-XXX/Doc.19), which recommends hiring additional staff to meet the increasing and projecting workload of the IPCC and calls for further investigation of ways to strengthen the day-to-day support and management of the Secretariat.
VENEZUELA objected to amending the Convention, and EGYPT opposed differentiation of mitigation actions.
The minds of many were overshadowed by the uncertainty regarding US participation in the Paris Agreement going forward.
BRAZIL, countered by NORWAY and the EU, stressed that GWPs do not adequately capture the lifetime of a greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, that many of the new gases have short lifetimes, and therefore that GWP overestimates the actual radiative forcing of these chemicals.
CHINA opposed e2 80 9ctearing apart e2 80 9d paragraphs.
 GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, expressed disappointment that guidelines for non-Annex I communications were not adopted and that no contact group was established to resolve differences between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Delegates then discussed the Chair’s “document 4.” In response to the G-77/CHINA, Chair Dovland explained that the “document 4” intended to clarify the legal implications of various proposals, such as those related to the flexibility mechanisms, LULUCF, metrics and new gases, i.e., whether they require amendments to the Protocol or COP/MOP decisions.
CHINA underscored the importance of fast-start finance as a deliverable from Cancun and emphasized the importance of guidelines for reporting and operational elements to enable distribution of funds.
Resuming discussions on the Co-Chairs 92 draft conclusions, the G-77/CHINA proposed deleting a paragraph inviting the SBSTA Chair, with the assistance of the Secretariat, to provide additional reports on the outcome of the regional workshop, noting the limited time at COP-6 for negotiations.
The Republic of Korea, for EIG, suggested exploring the possibility of an early pilot phase to build capacity and confidence.
BANGLADESH underscored the need for detailed sectoral and regional vulnerability assessments.
BRAZIL, with many others, suggested postponing discussion on elements requiring Protocol amendments until Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA identified “active” triggers that would allow the committee to reach out to countries, and “passive” triggers where input would be necessary to initiate the committee’s response.
On uncertainties for reporting, CANADA said these should be quantified and reported, but not in the CRF, which compares data across parties.
Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the PHILIPPINES highlighted the importance of gender-responsive adaptation measures.
SAUDI ARABIA requested clarification over the relationship between the work undertaken on the different elements of the BAPA.
The US, with the Republic of Korea, Japan and New Zealand, suggested a shortened formulation making reference only to the 2015 agreement.
CHINA said an MCP must provide recommendations and be non- supervisory and non-judgmental.
UKRAINE, supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, said that the SBI’s previous consideration of the report on national GHG inventory data from Annex I parties neglected to note that double counting occurred when data were reported by two countries from areas that he said were “illegally annexed.”
The US, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested the possibility that NGOs submit information.
 The PHILIPPINES said flexibility does not mean that Parties pick and choose obligations, but the goal is to deal with difficulties.
On scope of INDCs, SAUDI ARABIA and MEXICO called for INDCs to address adaptation, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, MONGOLIA, the AFRICAN GROUP, Costa Rica, for AILAC, and KENYA emphasizing MOI as well.
CHINA opposed addressing compliance together with transparency as in the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 paper.
The UK outlined a choice between either putting into place fast-start financing, long-term public and private finance, and responsibilities for mitigation, or “wrecking the Conference” by passing the document as an INF.
ALGERIA noted potential negative consequences of the Directive 2008/101/EC to include aviation emissions under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
TANZANIA emphasized the need to conclude a legally-binding agreement, noting that success would be measured by addressing the concerns and challenges highlighted by developing counties.
The EU said negotiations had provided a clearer picture and \t\texpressed hope for discussions at SBI-21.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized that the existing channels, such as national communications, are not adequate for sharing information on the negative consequences of response measures.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, highlighted the cordial and businesslike atmosphere at COP-5.
 In the contact group, BRAZIL, supported by CHINA and BOLIVIA, proposed 1 January 2011 as the date of submission of Annex I sixth national communications.
The US noted the need for consistency between the work of SBSTA and the CDM Executive Board.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stressed the need to decide whether market mechanisms are desirable and, if parties agree on this, they should cooperate to improve the proposals on the table, including his country’s proposal.
CHINA noted the "widespread suspicion or disagreement" associated with some of the conclusions and suggested that SBSTA request further comments from the IPCC regarding those conclusions.
INDIA emphasized that MRV of developed country support must be more rigorous than that of MRV of developing country mitigation actions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed “great concern” that current emission reduction pledges would lead to a long-term temperature increase of 4°C and that six months after COP 15, financing for adaptation is yet to materialize.
SINGAPORE and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized national circumstances.
ALGERIA called for avoiding a mitigation-centric MRV system.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, cautioned against focus on legally-binding mitigation commitments without means of implementation.
CANADA and BRAZIL said the draft decision could set a precedent affecting the integrity of the Protocol.
Delegates also discussed the further elaboration of views on the SCCF, with the EU reiterating its support for a process allowing for the further submission of Parties 92 views.
These proposals were not incorporated, but the examples on \t\t\tincreasing adaptive capacity were simplified based on suggestions \t\t\tfrom the US.
INDONESIA urged a focus on agenda items such as finance, which she said links to multiple other items.
The G-77/CHINA stated that available, voluntary inventories would be communicated “should the full costs of inventory preparation be provided by the operating entity of the financial mechanism.” The PHILIPPINES supported the G- 77/CHINA and called for reference to Article 11.5 (bilateral, multilateral and regional support).
SLOVENIA stressed that EITs 92 capacity and institutions needed strengthening to enable fulfillment of commitments.
TUVALU and SOUTH AFRICA stressed the need to consider fundamental concepts such as supplementarity.
South Africa, for BASIC, stressed that the ADP outcome should be in full accordance with all the Convention principles, particularly CBDR and equity.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested that a compromise proposal should be sought to resolve the issue.
 The G-77/CHINA and others called for adequacy and accessibility of financing and developing a mechanism to mobilize resources, expressed concerns over parallel financial initiatives, and proposed creating an umbrella multilateral fund under the Convention.
The AFRICAN GROUP called for specifying that the technical expert review and facilitative multilateral consideration are linked to transparency of support.
On the possible ways forward to determine the aggregate emission reduction range, parties agreed to the EU’s proposal to compile the existing pledges by Annex I parties, which were incorporated in an informal table compiled by the Secretariat.
The US asked if the reference to guidance on policies, programme priorities and eligibility criteria for the operating entity of the financial mechanism was appropriate.
 \t\tSAUDI ARABIA stated that there was no need for a new regime and argued \t\tthat Annex I countries were preoccupied with an economic agenda, citing \t\tthe EU 92s bid to control the carbon market.
Under implementation of adaptation action, Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the text should avoid overly prescriptive language and focus on concrete adaptation activities.
NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stressed that agreement on commitments could not be reached until rules are clarified.
SENEGAL, for the Africa Group, said definitions and modalities should be flexible and applicable to the local ecological context.
The EU noted the need for quick action and urged caution and pragmatism, stating that otherwise “analysis paralysis” could occur, given the complexities inherent in anticipating all effects.
CHINA said the issue of technology transfer had been marginalized and noted that it is different from information centers.
Belgium and the UK called for the preservation of all relevant and practical information on tools, good practices, and materials developed during AR6 to help jump start the work on AR7.
Saying the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP are independent processes, TUVALU favored two legal instruments coming out of Copenhagen.
Highlighting a peak in national emissions in 1978 and a long-term downward trend since then, FRANCE explained this was due to decarbonization of the electricity sector, primarily through deployment of nuclear energy.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted a new proposal on loss and damage.
JAMAICA and \t\tMALAWI urged revisions to the GEF 92s Resource Allocation Framework.
CANADA said no Parties should be excluded from representation in treaty bodies.
AILAC suggested establishing a new forum for parties to voluntarily share information on support for nationally appropriate mitigation actions and a new mechanism to catalyze action on mitigation.
SOUTH AFRICA highlighted “bright spots” in capacity building and technology, while expressing concern over progress on adaptation and mitigation, and over proposals: to move elements of the Protocol to the AWG-LCA; use a bottom-up approach; and blur the distinction between the sub-paragraphs 1b(i) and 1b(ii) of the BAP.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and several developing countries, stressed the need to achieve a higher level of ambition.
CHINA said information on INDCs should enhance clarity of developed countries e2 80 99 ambition and reflect the diversity of, barriers to and needs for, developing countries e2 80 99 INDCs.
Regarding draft conclusions on emissions inventories (FCCC/SBSTA/1998/L.3), the US proposed that SBSTA encourage the IPCC/OECD/IEA inventories programme to give high priority to completing its work on uncertainty, as well as to preparing a report on good practices in inventory management for consideration by COP-5.
ZIMBABWE urged Annex I countries to avoid allowing AIJ or JI projects to become “business as usual” and to take account of developing countries’ own development strategies.
SWITZERLAND proposed a hybrid approach to burden sharing, including common rules and expectations, a consultative phase and a common MRV system.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by MEXICO, NORWAY, and GRENADA, expressed support for the non-paper as a good basis for discussion; INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA noted that outstanding work remains before the paper can be used a basis for negotiation.
SAUDI ARABIA said the COP/MOP should play a role 93at the beginning, at the end and in the middle 94 of the compliance process.
He reiterated the EU’s commitment to a 30% emissions reduction if other developed countries make comparable commitments and advanced developing countries contribute adequately.
The EU presented on its success decoupling emissions from economic growth.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized a top-down approach, with INDIA noting that it was needed in the absence of adequate pledges.
The US “wholeheartedly” endorsed the Declaration and said the one point not specified was that the negotiated outcome must ensure maximum national flexibility for all Parties to implement their medium-term legally binding commitments.
 CANADA noted that its in-depth review experience had been positive and suggested that a document compiling experiences with the process of in-depth review be prepared for SBI 2.
Parties also highlighted areas for further work, with Switzerland, for the EIG, identifying, inter alia, a mandatory provision for nationally determined mitigation contributions (NMDCs) and internationally transferred mitigation outcomes.
BELARUS and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed the need to incorporate text reflecting the special national circumstances of Annex I countries with economies in transition, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION adding that the issue must be addressed before forwarding the texts to the COP.
The EU, supported by Japan, Colombia, Canada, the Marshall Islands, Iceland, Australia, Guyana and many others, supported establishing a “friends of the chair” group.
CANADA stressed its interest in substantive \t\tdiscussions on the matter, and said project capacity building would be \t\tguided by Canada ef bf bds principles on strengthening aid effectiveness.
SURINAME said partnerships to promote clean \t\ttechnologies are needed.
JAPAN underscored sectoral approaches’ contribution to fair and equitable national targets, and technology transfer.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, raised concerns over developing countries’ access to funds from the GEF, with AOSIS also pointing to issues related to the accreditation of agencies.
POLAND supported the statement made by the Russian Federation, and stated that the AGBM should ask SBSTA to analyze national policy actions based on national communications and OECD/IEA work.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported by BOLIVIA, SINGAPORE, AOSIS and GHANA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, suggested deletion of detailed references to mitigation elements.
The EU identified the elements text, rather than the decision on INDCs, as e2 80 9cthe right place e2 80 9d to address climate finance.
Responding to the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, the US clarified concerns on: ensuring the governing structure includes countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol; fitting the Fund into the post-Paris financial architecture; evaluating the Fund’s effectiveness; agreeing on all sources of funding; and reviewing the safeguards policy.
AOSIS called for considering adaptation as separate from loss and damage.
The US said administrative funding should include staff costs and actual positions for the biennium, and requested clarification on the methodology used to allocate costs for operational and preparatory activities associated with the Protocol.
CHINA identified the need to close the AWG-LCA with a “comprehensive and balanced” outcome, saying the text before delegates is not comprehensive.
The US said \t\t\the would like the singular events sub-box in the AR4 Synthesis \t\t\tReport instead of the SPM.
FRANCE responded that the possible role in interpretation should not be excluded.
Switzerland, with the US, asked how remote sensing could be combined with the bottom-up monitoring system of the Paris Agreement.
CANADA listed improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, and livestock feeding practices.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed a financial mechanism based on the principles, inter alia, of: direct access to funding, new and additional resources, and predictability.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, said that they do not wish to renegotiate either the Marrakesh Accords or the Protocol, but that in order to achieve the Convention’s ultimate objective of avoiding dangerous climate change, parties have “every reason to move forward and not get stuck in history.”
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, stressed that emphasis should be on country-driven strategies and the needs and priorities of developing countries.
On commitments/contributions, TURKEY preferred e2 80 9ccontributions.
TURKEY noted her country’s plans to adopt no-lose targets and NAMAs, and stressed differentiation among Annex I parties.
The EU suggested adding language on a legally-binding outcome under the two tracks.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for coordination between the AWGs and stressed that the agreement should capture the full range of mitigation efforts, with common architecture and obligations grounding the common responsibility of all countries to mitigate climate change.
INDIA, supported by CHINA, suggested this option should be based on, and under, the UNFCCC and not involve reinterpretation or amendment of the Convention, with CHINA suggesting that “dynamic” interpretation of the principle may entail amendment.
EGYPT supported efforts by all countries.
BANGLADESH emphasized the need for a financial architecture under the UNFCCC, in conformity with the BAP, providing easy and direct access to resources especially for the most vulnerable countries.
On the preliminary examination of questions, the G-77/CHINA said the functions it envisaged at this stage were to ensure that the question is supported by sufficient information and is not de minimis, and to direct the case to a particular branch.
Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the African Group, highlighted progress on, inter alia: the NWP; development and transfer of technology; research and systematic observation; and the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
AOSIS said the 17-25% pledged by Annex I parties would result in effective emission reductions of only 1-7% when all the technical rules are considered.
On fungibility, the US said Protocol Articles 3.10, 3.11 and 3.12 (QELROs) explain how AAUs, Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) and Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) can be transferred from Party to Party.
On the appeal by Croatia, BOLIVIA proposed broadening the scope of a proposed technical paper, aimed at outlining the process and applicable rules for the consideration of appeals, to include the consideration of legally-binding consequences for non-compliance.
AOSIS underscored early warning technologies.
 \t\t\t \t\t\tThe RUSSIAN FEDERATION elaborated on its proposal, noting the \t\t\tobstacles and limitations under the current regime for countries to \t\t\ttake on commitments and explaining that the aim is to make it more \t\t\tattractive for non-Annex I parties to “contribute to the objective \t\t\tof the Convention.” He proposed a two-track approach that he \t\t\tcharacterized as “Kyoto” and “Convention” tracks.
 AOSIS recalled its draft protocol calling for a 20% reduction in 1990 GHG emissions, and stated that the protocol should be open to all Parties.
On their proposed reduction target of 10 to 20% below 1990 levels by 2020, NEW ZEALAND highlighted that it assumed continuation of current LULUCF rules, as well as full recourse to carbon markets and flexibility mechanisms due to the high cost of domestic mitigation.
NORWAY and the UK referred to the recent weather events in Europe as a sign of climate change.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported and suggested it feed into the UN Secretary-General’s 2019 Climate Summit.
The EU noted that work should first be undertaken to develop the review for inventories and then guidelines developed for the review process under the Convention and the Protocol.
Artur Runge-Metzger, European Commission, described the EU 92s agreed policy of aiming to limit global temperature rise to 2 b0C Celsius, based on a stabilization of concentrations at 450ppm.
Reporting back from spin-off discussions on scale, ECUADOR noted difficulty in disentangling cross-cutting issues.
 GERMANY, referring to the EU experience, suggested making a joint commitment for a future protocol, setting common targets for Annex I Parties and deciding how to share them.
The US highlighted the review of the long-term global goal, scheduled for 2013, saying it would benefit from biennial reports as it was not currently possible to make a judgment on the way forward based on available information.
The European Union (EU) reported it was negotiating with member states to raise annual contributions from e2 82 ac4 million to e2 82 ac5 million in 2019.
Sharing the same concern, CANADA proposed discussing a process to further elaborate these items following the operationalization of the SCCF.
A proposal for guidelines on the eligibility of projects initiated under the AIJ pilot phase for generation of emissions reduction units was opposed by the G-77/CHINA.
The UK proposed emphasizing that the recent warming \t\t\tis connected to human activities.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SAMOA, proposed a compromise text whereby the Executive Board would review and could make recommendations to the COP/MOP if it considered it necessary.
He said about 28% of Ireland’s emissions are covered by the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the remaining 72% are covered by the EU Effort-Sharing Decision and that Ireland’s national emission reduction target is 20% below 2005 levels by 2020.
BRAZIL said the CDM should not be operational before ratification of the Protocol and implementation of domestic measures.
Deletion was opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and OMAN.
ARGENTINA \t\tcalled on Annex I countries to improve implementation and for incentives \t\tfor mitigation action in developing countries, including measures to \t\tallow them to overcome obstacles to mitigation in the agriculture and \t\tenergy sectors.
Several countries noted the complexity of the US proposal.
BARBADOS said, inter alia, that the new legally-binding agreement must be: comprehensive in scope; and address adaptation, mitigation, finance and technology.
PERU, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama and Uruguay, urged agreement on a second commitment period as soon as possible to avoid critical increases in global temperatures.
On the adoption of the agenda (FCCC/SBI/2002/1 and Add.1), CANADA raised uncertainties over the status of the agenda item on implementation of Protocol Article 2.3 (minimization of adverse effects), as noted in the opening meeting of the SBSTA.
Participants queried the status of Doha Amendment ratifications and the future of the climate regime given the recent US election.
JAPAN called for the chair 92s text to reflect a balance between mitigation and adaptation reporting requirements.
The EU invited parties to share views on underlying concerns and needs.
On \t\tbundling, BRAZIL proposed that the host Parties may coordinate several \t\tsmall-scale A&amp;R CDM activities with a view to diminishing the costs of \t\tvalidation, verification and certification.
Opening addresses highlighted the need for more than incremental change to mobilize trillions of US dollars to protect lives and communities, and the Anticipate, Absorb and Reshape initiative on climate risk insurance.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a spin-off group on the scale of funding, based on the needs of developing countries.
JAPAN suggested that Annex I Parties adopt P&amp;Ms according to national circumstances, in the areas of efficient use of energy, low-carbon energy, technological development and cooperation, and enhancement of sinks.
CANADA \t\tcalled for an ad hoc working group.
During informal consultations, many spoke in favor of this proposal stating it would improve the effectiveness of the Convention, including Costa Rica, Colombia, Guyana, Suriname and the EU.
The US, with Australia, supported doing this at COP-8, underscoring the relevant COP-5 decision that had scheduled this for COP-7, and stressed that it was not acceptable to postpone this for more than one year.
The US, supported by others, also proposed that CGE be mandated \t\tto examine non-Annex I national communications.
INDIA \t\texpressed concerns at attempts to create a new framework that could \t\tdilute action on existing commitments.
The EU, inter alia: lamented Bonn’s lengthy agenda discussion; praised efforts to enable LDCs to prepare, plan and implement adaptation actions; welcomed proposals to enhance the participation of observer organizations; welcomed progress on the work programme on loss and damage; and noted that response measures is a mitigation issue and should not be addressed under adaptation.
The US, with HUNGARY, noted the \t\timportance of clearly defining the functions of a nominations committee.
TUVALU, supported by GRENADA, KIRIBATI, EL SALVADOR, COSTA RICA, the COOK ISLANDS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, PALAU and BELIZE, stressed the importance of the issue, urged its proper substantive consideration through a contact group and said delaying the issue until Saturday will not allow this.
BOLIVIA cautioned against implying transfer of responsibilities to non-state actors, and called for referencing the global carbon budget and Mother Earth.
 CANADA supported a combined approach to policies and measures and the quantified emission reductions.
NEPAL and CAMBODIA raised \t\tthe issue of non-renewable biomass, while BRAZIL and AOSIS underscored \t\tthe need to maintain CDM 92s environmental integrity.
Many parties thanked the co-facilitators for their effort, with the EU and US suggesting the co-facilitators consolidate the proposals in one column.
The US proposed a facility or programme under the GEF \t\tinstead.
Two country groups said they would work together to propose language on arrangements for sharing lessons from the Adaptation Fund relevant for other funds, such as the GCF or LDC Fund, and some proposed drawing on language from the operational framework of the GCF.
 The US and the GEF stated that the GEF Council may not be able to approve the annex as quickly as anticipated and deleted the dates from the decision.
ARGENTINA, \t\tsupported by SWITZERLAND and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed requesting the \t\tSecretariat to compile information on existing regional climate \t\tcirculation models, methodologies for determining vulnerability, and \t\tmethodologies for formulating adaptation projects.
The EU noted the need for adding value to the UNFCCC process and called for inclusively addressing the concerns of all.
The EU cautioned against backtracking and questioning the IPCC’s work.
 Many delegates, NGOs and other observers left New York with a feeling that INC-11 had failed to take the necessary forward-looking action with regard to the AOSIS protocol, strengthening commitments and joint implementation.
Delegates then approved an EU proposal related to timing of review of national systems, and agreed on the paragraphs on financial resources in the section relating to reporting of supplementary information under Article 7.2.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented insufficient time to complete consideration of some issues, while welcoming progress on others.
Although the US does not prefer an amendment over a protocol, he said an amendment has merit because it would: not raise complex institutional questions; simplify the process, and follow the worldwide trend of streamlining international instruments.
South Africa, for BASIC, called for upfront understanding on differentiation.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said the functions and characteristics are different.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, proposed a contact group on REDD.
AOSIS emphasized including traditional and indigenous knowledge.
The UK, supported by the Netherlands, asked to reassess the suggested approach of IPCC-30 on handling regional issues and proposed that regional aspects could be dealt with in the SYR.
The US, CANADA and AUSTRALIA expressed concern about the lack of rigour of research on attribution.
The US said: TNAs, capacity building and enabling environments should be dealt with separately; more clarification was needed on concepts such as “incentive mechanisms” and “technology information”; and references to finance should be moved to the finance section.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS, JAPAN, CHINA, SINGAPORE and several others highlighted concerns over environmental integrity in relation to multiplication factors, with the EU noting that they would inflate emission reductions that have not taken place.
On the outcome, SWITZERLAND suggested attaching a co-facilitators’ summary to a co-chairs’ summary.
Switzerland, for the EIG, inter alia, welcomed outcomes of the in-session workshop on gender-responsive climate policy and considered the multilateral assessment process as helpful to enhance understanding of parties e2 80 99 commitments; and regretted no progress was made on modalities of the CDM.
TUVALU stressed appropriate technologies, and RWANDA said donors must address the need for poverty reduction when transferring technologies.
Australia, the US and New Zealand supported legal expertise for the enforcement branch, but with access to technical expertise, when required.
AUSTRALIA said eligibility criteria for the flexibility mechanisms, as well as the recognition of REDD credits, may need to be considered.
The US opposed the inclusion of the development costs of the Protocol in the Secretariat 92s core budget, and with Australia, called for separate UNFCCC and Protocol budgets.
AUSTRALIA said she could agree to the governing instrument as part of a balanced package observing that it sets out many innovative and ambitious facilities such as direct access and a private sector facility.
On action on adaptation, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, and Iran called for recognizing that adaptation is country-specific.
VENEZUELA and ARGENTINA stressed the need to work on text.
TANZANIA stressed the need to identify areas where immediate \t\taction is required.
The report (IPCC-XXII/Doc.3) was approved with an amendment by SWITZERLAND clarifying an intervention on the outcomes of the meeting on processes affecting terrestrial carbon stocks and human influences upon them.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the work of the AWG-LCA should lead to an outcome at COP 15 with action from all parties, considering national circumstances.
On demonstrable progress, the EU expressed support for a strong obligation for each Party to demonstrate, in its national communication, progress in meeting its commitments by 2005.
On the mechanisms, PAKISTAN urged strong, clear and flexible rules on the CDM based on principles of equity and sustainability, and stressed that the CDM and other mechanisms should not be a substitute for long-term emissions reductions.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by \t\tthe UK, proposed deleting wording on the growth of 93annual 94 emissions.
On response measures, AWG-LCA Chair Tayeb highlighted that further work is needed on “unilateral measures with global implications.” INDIA called for a spin-off group to address unresolved issues on response measures with clear timelines.
When reviewing the agenda, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed amending the agenda to note the “use of” scientific assessments.
The EU said the discussion should focus on definitions under Article 3.3 and 3.4, noting that these definitions would not necessarily be applicable under Articles 6 and 12, should sinks be allowed under them.
South Africa agreed with the UK that countries should distribute a proposed national policy so that the COP could work with it.
 \t\tMaldives, for the LDCs, and Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island \t\tStates (AOSIS), challenged a scenario projecting greenhouse gas \t\tconcentrations of between 445-490 parts per million (ppm) and a change \t\tin global mean temperature above pre-industrial levels of between \t\t2-2.4 b0C.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested restructuring the text in accordance with the Bali Action Plan (BAP), highlighting the need for a separate chapter on finance.
 Mauritius said his delegation did not have very much to be proud of, and will leave Berlin with a sense of sadness for having something that is \'half-baked.\' The wide support for the AOSIS protocol was not reflected in the final decision.
On Monday, 9 November, the G-77/CHINA submitted a proposed work programme containing an extensive list of issues, embodying a "step-by-step" approach and prioritizing the CDM.
   SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern that some countries were “blocking progress on certain issues” and requested text on response measures on Wednesday that reflects progress across all areas of the negotiations.
VENEZUELA emphasized that the CDM is linked to the level of ambition and is not “just another business opportunity.” Climate Market and Investment Association, for BINGOs, urged active engagement from parties to safeguard the mechanism.
The \t\tG-77/CHINA and AFRICA GROUP expressed disappointment at the absence of a \t\tdeadline for completing the work programme.
On 29 January, US President Clinton announced a five-year, $6.3 billion package of tax incentives and research to spur development of fuel-efficient automobiles and other energy-saving technologies.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that priority questions should be identified by parties, not by the Secretariat, and expressed concern with new non-paper No.
 This item was first taken up in plenary on 2 December and subsequently in informal consultations co-facilitated by Pepetua Latasi (Tuvalu) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
AUSTRALIA underscored that adaptation action is not a substitute for mitigation.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and the RUSSIAN \t\tFEDERATION, and opposed by AUSTRIA, PERU, SWITZERLAND and the US, \t\tsuggested that methodologies be referred to as revised methodologies.
SAUDI ARABIA supported the need for further workshops focusing on concrete actions.
On decision text regarding new terms of reference for the Consultative Group of Experts on non-Annex I national communications (CGE), the EU called for the initiation of a process for the voluntary review of national communications.
  At the request of the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Adaptation Fund Chair Richard Muyungi presented a summary of activities.
The EU expressed concern that the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text contained no alternatives.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stated parties should leave Bonn with a comprehensive plan of work and a timetable.
Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed proceeding on the basis of the provisional agenda (FCCC/SBI/2013/1).
The G-77/CHINA expressed concern that this \t\treference could be interpreted as a deadline by the GEF.
The G-77/CHINA requested the GEF to present a full report on the CDI at COP-6, and asked if it was funded from the budget allocated for climate change activities.
Noting that hydropower reservoir emissions could make up 1 percent of global emissions, the US said the topic of flooded lands should be addressed in detail.
SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BURUNDI and SENEGAL called for a governing body to coordinate capacity-building efforts, with SENEGAL calling for MRV of support to developing countries.
On the report of the SCF, the EU, with South Africa for the African Group, proposed working on the basis of the draft decisions contained the SCF report.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that the SBSTA was a standing body and did not have to discuss all topics at SBSTA 1.
TURKEY, NORWAY, the EU, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Angola, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES (LDCs), MALAYSIA and KUWAIT supported reference to Convention Article 2 (Objective).
Kenya, for the Africa Group, noted an \t\tinadequate commitment on capacity building, while Bangladesh, on behalf \t\tof the LDCs, highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC, Adaptation \t\tand Special Climate Change Funds.
The US requested inclusion of trace gases.
The G-77/CHINA favored a narrow scope such as issues of due process and Article 3.1.
BRAZIL and PERU said natural regeneration is a management approach according to the IPCC Special Report, and is not always human-induced.
On a question by CANADA on mitigation-relevant sectoral plans included in Kazakhstan’s Strategic Development Plan, she mentioned water and waste management, transport and energy efficiency.
The US, ARGENTINA, the EU, VENEZUELA, SURINAME, COLOMBIA, EGYPT, SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL, AUSTRALIA, the PHILIPPINES, ECUADOR, SWITZERLAND, INDONESIA, CHINA, COSTA RICA, SINGAPORE, MALAYSIA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO supported this approach.
AOSIS reiterated the need to create a context first by establishing the second commitment period and urged parties to answer questions regarding preconditions and surpluses.
URUGUAY expressed concern that some delegations suggested delaying the AGBM process, and noted that non-Annex I countries are making every effort to meet existing commitments, despite suggestions to the contrary.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored significant progress by the AWG-KP, saying that much of the technical work has been done.
 The US noted that the 2020 finance goal was made in the context of meaningful mitigation action for 2020, questioning whether those parties calling for mid-term finance commitments would also take on mid-term mitigation commitments.
Speaking on behalf of Italy 92s Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, Altero Matteoli, Italy 92s Minister for the Environment and Territory, said the Draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe provides for EU Member States to fulfill their obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
 ROMANIA: Ioan Jelev, Department of the Environment, Secretary of State, supported GHG emission reductions through improved energy efficiency and the enhancement of human resources, finance mechanisms, technology transfer and AIJ.
CHINA expressed concerns with conditionalities in the text.
He outlined this would involve a one-off cost of approximately US$107,000.
India, for the LMDCs, with Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested: replacing “starting in 2019, should consider quantitative considerations of MOI” with “shall provide, by the first quarter of 2015, information under Annex II,” and referencing the provision of MOI to developing countries for a timely preparation of their INDCs.
AUSTRALIA welcomed progress on technology, adaptation, the Review and the Standing Committee.
The US, BRAZIL, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BOLIVIA opposed including definitions of “REDD+” and, with Malaysia, for the LMDCs, of “climate forcers.”
On a paragraph about accommodation in Poznan and the cost and availability of hotels, the G-77/CHINA said further discussions with the host country were scheduled for later on Wednesday, and asked to return to this issue in the contact group on Thursday.
The EU also submitted proposals that the entity consist of a \t\tgoverning body, a secretariat, and a trustee, with the World Bank \t\tfilling the latter role.
After further discussion, SINGAPORE proposed combining item 3 as amended by the Philippines and item 4 as amended by himself.
The EU supported parallel discussions on developed and developing country actions and, with INDONESIA, further exploring MRV.
Supported by MAURITIUS, CHINA, IRAN, MALAYSIA, MOROCCO and ARGENTINA, the G- 77/CHINA called for deletion of references to modalities for crediting.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS and MICRONESIA highlighted the need for information related to technology transfer for adaptation.
Discussion also took place on the role of low-carbon development strategies and plans, with the EU and others highlighting their importance, and the G-77/China stating that they should not be a pre-condition for support or recognition of NAMAs.
e2 80 9d She said monitoring and evaluation, and, with NORWAY, institutional arrangements should be addressed in COP decisions.
On the needs of LDCs, including SIDS, the note suggests: a separate work programme to be financed by the GEF which will focus on vulnerability and adaptation needs assessment, including technology transfer and capacity building; development of national adaptation programmes of action; implementation of concrete adaptation projects; and the establishment of an LDC group of experts.
In their joint statement, BASIC ministers commit to work with other parties to ensure a comprehensive and balanced PAWP outcome, and underscore the need for the Bangkok Climate Change Conference to deliver a party-driven negotiating text covering all issues and interlinkages related to Paris Agreement implementation.
The US, supported by NEW ZEALAND, said that the term “total emissions” does not fully encompass the meaning of the word “budget,” and noted the need to further reflect on the meaning of the term where it appeared in other parts of the text.
CHINA and AOSIS called for COP-6 resolutions supporting capacity building in developing countries.
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela suggested deleting reference to “market and non-market approaches.” The EU, Netherlands, Norway and Ireland opposed, noting that the reference will help guide authors about the potential range of international climate policy tools and experiences as they relate to cooperation.
The UK urged linking the various carbon trading schemes.
CANADA highlighted the EGTT’s work on financing options.
SAUDI ARABIA observed that proposed international taxation methods would negatively impact developing countries and pointed to incompatibility of market-based mechanisms with WTO rules.
CANADA presented on their national target to reduce emissions by 20% from 2006 levels by 2020, emphasizing it is a mid-term target on the pathway towards a 60-70% reduction relative to 2006 by 2050.
For Chapter 10 on Key economic sectors and services, the UK highlighted systemic risks and insurance, and South Africa, with Thailand, suggested adding agriculture.
  The US suggested the questions address key messages of the report and cautioned against tailoring them for specific audiences.
Underscoring that the technical paper would have assisted the most vulnerable countries prepare for the unavoidable impacts of climate change, BARBADOS emphasized that it is “ironic that other developing countries are blocking it,” asked whether “this is the solidarity and brotherhood they speak so eloquently about,” and stressed that “this is not a game, the existence of entire countries is at stake.”
Chile, for AILAC, suggested text on distinguishing between ex ante and ex post review of INDCs, proposing that all parties make successive mitigation commitments.
In the \t\tdiscussion, AUSTRIA expressed concern that policies fall short of \t\tproviding effective incentives.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said that parties that do not join a second commitment period should not be isolated, in order to ensure easy transition into the post-2020 legal regime.
On a \t\tfigure indicating the geographical relationship between carbon dioxide \t\temission sources and sedimentary basins with geological storage \t\tpotential, CHINA proposed removing the figure, saying that much of the \t\tinformation was not supported by valid scientific facts, and that it did \t\tnot include future source emissions.
BRAZIL acknowledged the cross-cutting nature of finance, while calling for a separate finance chapter in the text.
Colombia, for AILAC, urged utilizing the best available science and emphasized the importance of long-term low-emission development strategies in orienting the NDCs towards the Agreement’s goals.
AOSIS, supported by the PHILIPPINES and the MALDIVES, said the SAR is sufficient to allow agreement on QELROs.
The EU said the work \t\tplan should have the flexibility to accommodate issues that come up at a \t\tlater stage.
JAPAN said that the composition of the TAPs should take into account geographical consideration, expertise, the balance between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties and the nomination by the SBSTA\'s Bureau if regional coordinators could not agree, which the Chair said could be included.
He also noted consensus among donors on a replenishment target of US$2.75 billion.
NORWAY \t\tunderscored that the duration of the commitment cannot be determined \t\tindependently of the number of Parties undertaking commitments and the \t\tambition of those commitments.
SAMOA stressed that procedures are non-adversarial, multilateral in nature and include due-process provisions.
VIET NAM urged support from industrialized countries to combat sea-level rise.
The EU, US, Switzerland and Samoa said some elements in the annexes may need to be included in the main part of the text.
Moving to the proposed adaptation TEP (paragraphs 34-39), many developed countries opposed addressing adaptation under workstream 2, calling for: using existing resources and institutions effectively, such as the CTCN, LDC Expert Group and Adaptation Committee; considering elements of the proposed TEP in discussions on workstream 1 decision text; and encouraging engagement by countries on adaptation agenda items in other bodies.
• requests the GEF to: continue to support all activities under the LDC work programme; continue mobilizing resources to ensure full implementation of the LDC work programme; further facilitate access to the LDC Fund; and further enhance a country-driven process for the implementation of national adaptation programme of action (NAPA) projects;
AUSTRALIA called for the use of a historic baseline and for consistency across sectors.
The US supported \t\tengagement of international organizations and countries involved in \t\ttechnical capacity building and pilot activities to inform SBSTA.
The proposal was opposed by CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA who, acknowledging Bolivia’s concerns, emphasized that they do not fall within the remit of the group.
On EIT and countries whose special circumstances have been recognized by the COP, he reported ongoing consultations held by the AWG-LCA Vice-Chair.
Non-Annex I Communications: The G-77/CHINA highlighted insufficient financial resources to meet the 93agreed full costs 94 in the preparation of non-Annex I communications.
On aviation and maritime emissions, the EU noted broad support to address this under the UNFCCC.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA proposed awarding credits from “nationally appropriate mitigation action” (NAMA) in developing countries to enable deeper cuts by Annex I parties.
COLOMBIA said the BAP had set up “a long-term horizon,” and does not have a definite end point.
SWITZERLAND noted the absence of principles on carbon storage reporting, and accounting of assigned amounts under the Protocol, and Chair Thorgeirsson said the matter would be noted in the session 92s report.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested involving the ADP co-facilitators in the development of textual options, based on ministerial facilitation and the draft Paris outcome text, and with the assistance of the Secretariat.
BULGARIA called for a meeting to address the specific features of EITs before COP-6.
The EU proposed that additional workshops be held to address the technical aspects of P&amp;Ms and emphasized the need to improve quantification of assessment of P&amp;Ms at a sectoral level.
 PALESTINE highlighted difficulties accessing GEF resources and requested that a message be transferred to the COP on not excluding any non-Annex I parties from accessing resources.
 MEXICO, supported by KOREA, said climate change must be tackled on the basis of common but differentiated responsibilities.
The work programme aims to assist countries, in particular developing countries, including the least developed countries and SIDS, to improve their understanding and assessment of impacts, vulnerability and adaptation, and in making informed decisions on practical adaptation actions and measures to respond to climate change on a sound, scientific, technical and socioeconomic basis, taking into account current and future climate change and variability.
NIGERIA said the conclusions should reflect that the IPCC report is not the only report available.
He highlighted UK initiatives such as the Climate \t\t\tChange Bill, which is expected to be passed in 2008, directing \t\t\tresources to support adaptation in priority areas, and the all-party \t\t\tparliamentary climate change group.
Following these discussions, a proposal on HWPs was presented to the co-facilitators by Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, the Russian Federation and Switzerland.
INDIA, ARGENTINA and NORWAY called for including the state of adaptation support.
The EIG and NORWAY further suggested that a work programme be launched under the SBSTA to facilitate understanding of the submitted NAMAs.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the text needed “a surgery” so that some “vital organs,” such as loss and damage, could be inserted.
AUSTRALIA proposed a new option for a fully comprehensive approach.
The US welcomed efforts undertaken both bi- and multilaterally, and in- and outside the Convention, and took note of the scaling up of the Climate Technology Initiative.
 During the joint SBI/SBSTA contact group on Protocol Articles 2.3 (adverse impacts of policies and measures) and 3.14 (adverse effects and impacts of response measures), Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that issues under Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 do not require symmetrical treatment.
On timing, the US and the Netherlands, supported by Australia, said the WG III report should be approved before the SYR, with the Netherlands calling for moving the SYR approval date from September to November 2014 and for asking the UNFCCC Secretariat to schedule COP 20 in December 2014 so the AR5 results could be presented to the COP.
The EU and JAPAN requested the deletion of text calling for information exchange on ways to minimize adverse effects of response measures.
Youth representatives from Kenya and the UK then reported on the previous week 92s international Youth Conference attended by 118 young people from 61 countries, and urged all delegates to read and address the Youth Declaration.
JAPAN highlighted parties’ common responsibility.
NORWAY opposed quantitative caps on the use of flexibility mechanisms.
94 The US pointed at a seeming inconsistency regarding \t\t\tdisappearance of glaciers by 2030 in the underlying report.
POLAND noted that if Parties decide to change inventory methodology, artificial reduction of emissions may occur, and proposed recalculating emissions whenever the COP adopts new or amended emissions inventory methodology.
 These items were taken up together in joint SBI/SBSTA informal consultations on the report of the Adaptation Committee, co-facilitated by Patience Damptey (Ghana) and Gabriela Fischerova (Slovakia), and on matters relating to LDCs (FCCC/SBI/2018/4), co-facilitated by Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) and Malcolm Ridout (UK).
Pointing to a recent incident involving the theft of e-mails from scientists at the University of East Anglia in the UK, Pachauri highlighted the IPCC’s record of transparent and objective assessment.
SIERRA LEONE asked if bilateral or domestic markets will undermine the environmental integrity of market mechanisms, and the ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND underscored the importance of standards for transparency and environmental integrity.
 GEF, reported its contributions including: support to INDC preparation; allocation of US$554 million to 59 mitigation projects; and US$189 million for 85 capacity-building projects.
The G-77/CHINA, NORWAY, CHINA, AOSIS, BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and the AFRICAN GROUP called for retaining 1990 as the base year for the sake of simplicity, comparability and transparency.
TUVALU expressed concern that some parties are asking the international community to lock into long-term, low commitments that are legally ambiguous.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), called for massively scaled-up, accessible and additional funding for LDCs, and, on adaptation, he said the LDCs should receive 70% of the proposed 1.5% of Annex I parties’ gross domestic product for adaptation.
 During the first week of INC-11, Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, introduced a draft protocol submitted in September 1994, and Germany also introduced a proposal for further elements of a protocol.
TURKEY called for a clear COP decision.
BELARUS highlighted legal complexities and advocated combining the two AWGs’ results and developing a comprehensive text for June.
 INDIA and KUWAIT supported specifying that differentiation, as mentioned in sub-item (d), applies to Annex I countries.
NEW ZEALAND supported considering national circumstances in the draft conclusions, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested this was particularly important for market mechanisms.
He also noted that the allocation of funds to LDCs and SIDS has increased to 18% in the fourth GEF replenishment, up from 12% in the third GEF replenishment.
CHINA, supported by ALGERIA, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA, emphasized the need for ambitious commitments from Annex I parties, that developed countries are supposed to lead and that they are obligated under the Kyoto Protocol to commit to reductions in a second commitment period.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION encouraged clarification of SBSTA’s relationship to the IPCC concerning the use of data.
BANGLADESH, SIERRA LEONE, TIMOR-LESTE, the MALDIVES, TANZANIA and others stressed capacity building.
SWITZERLAND cautioned against distributing the tables too widely.
Noting a sense of urgency and the need to send a positive signal to the public, the US, with the UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Canada, Slovenia and others, called for implementation “no later” than the 35th session.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, strongly supported the role of NGOs and remained open to tailoring different mechanisms for different NGO constituencies.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, called for balance between the two negotiating tracks and balanced decisions within each track, without compromising the overall objective of a comprehensive, ambitious and legally-binding outcome.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed disappointment and frustration with lack of progress under the AWG-LCA, pointing to the lack of decisions that would allow work to be advanced, and called for draft decision text between now and Doha, as well as greater clarity on what is going to happen with unresolved and pending issues.
CHINA suggested that the TEP use information from the multilateral assessment process and the Standing Committee on Finance.
As the key elements of an agreed outcome, NEW ZEALAND proposed, inter alia, fundamental parameters, guiding principles for the level of ambition, and directions for further work.
China, for the BASIC countries, said defining a second commitment period should be the main priority for Durban.
The EU presented on the implications for QELROs of starting points, pathways and durations, highlighting that early starting points and longer durations lead to more gradual pathways and smaller QELROs, both of which may impact the “level of ambition” Annex I countries are willing to pursue.
e2 80 9cIn the spirit of compromise, e2 80 9d several groups and delegates, including Malaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, Iran, for the LMDCs, and Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed concern over: the lack of balance in the text; lack of adequate time for consideration of the text; and the danger of prejudging the outcome of the Paris agreement.
He said these funds are currently leveraged by a factor of US$35 for every US$1 of public money invested.
The US stressed making timely decisions on LULUCF.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified the inclusion of key elements of the Bali Action Plan as a precondition for discussions.
The EU, with CANADA and the US, proposed using language from \t\tDecision 1/CP.10.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, welcomed progress on NAPs and on gender, inviting parties to implement gender-related activities.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, with BRAZIL and CHINA, stated that greater ambition from Annex I parties will drive demand for the mechanisms.
On paragraph 39, he outlined three perspectives: markets involve international transfers, to be assessed through standards established by the COP; current experiences from the Kyoto Protocol mechanisms, CDM and EU Emission Trading System (EU ETS) should be built upon; and no market mechanisms should be established, in particular for the land-use sector.
INDIA urged differentiation based on equity, CBDR and historical responsibility.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to engage the private sector.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the elements identified in Decision 1/CP.17 must be treated equally in the 2015 agreement, adding that the ADP Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper on elements for a draft negotiating text is e2 80 9cnot perfect, e2 80 9d but could be e2 80 9ca useful starting point.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP suggested identifying all elements of a future package, proposed streamlining the text and supported increased ambition.
DENMARK stressed the need for a clear \t\ttimetable for deciding a post-2012 framework.
The US noted that vulnerability will change over time, meaning ongoing assessments by all Parties are desirable.
Terry Carrington (UK) and Philip Gwage (Uganda) reported on consultations on development and transfer of technologies.
The NWP aims to assist countries, in particular developing countries, including the least developed countries and small island developing states (SIDS), to improve their understanding and assessment of impacts, vulnerability and adaptation, and in making informed decisions on practical adaptation actions and measures to respond to climate change on a sound scientific, technical and socioeconomic basis, taking into account current and future climate change and variability.
Brazil, Panama, India, the EU, Norway and others identified the UNFCCC as the appropriate forum for bunker fuel decision-making.
Australia emphasized that budget priorities need to be clarified, and, with Brazil, China, the EU, Japan, Norway, and the Russian Federation, said the budget increase is too high.
The Gambia, for LDCs, favored a legally-binding agreement encompassing the BAP, contingent on adoption of a ratifiable second commitment period.
On the Standing Committee, parties considered proposals from: Pakistan; Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the US; and Switzerland.
The EU recommended recording Tuvalu 92s concerns in the meeting 92s minutes instead of amending the draft conclusions.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, supported setting rules before agreeing on numbers, and called for: reference levels that allow crediting for mitigation actions and that avoid business-as-usual credits; and accounting for forest removals and emissions.
TUVALU called for more transparency in REDD negotiations.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA highlighted their intention to provide specific comments on the non-paper later, with the EU stressing the need to provide the opportunity for such specific comments and to go through the text paragraph-by-paragraph.
PAKISTAN stressed compulsory licensing.
CROATIA pointed to new emissions estimates and projections that do not include emissions from neighboring countries, noting that the concerns of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro are no longer relevant.
TUVALU expressed concern about accounting crossover between wetlands, cropland and grazing land, and the EU cautioned against the potential for double counting.
Chair Pachauri proposed, and delegates agreed, to set up a Task Group on the rules of procedure, co-chaired by the US and Mauritius, to report back to the Panel at the next session.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to agree on “a shared vision” and a global target under the AWG-LCA before finalizing commitments under the AWG-KP.
INDIA emphasized that equity can raise ambition, cautioned against applying equity dynamically and emphasized that the concept of respective capabilities should not result in a transfer of responsibilities from developed to developing countries.
AUSTRALIA proposed the end of the commitment period.
On coastal communities, Canada \t\t\tidentified the need to be more specific than the US proposal and \t\t\tFrance emphasized hurricanes.
On technology, CANADA and AUSTRALIA highlighted the EGGT’s advance reports.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the inputs to the 2018 facilitative dialogue.
The US called for the TEC to manage the agenda and proceedings of the TEMs and, with AOSIS, to provide meeting details three months in advance.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS emphasized the need to trust the Presidency and ministers, opposing “procedural approaches” such as parties negotiating the ways that ministers summarize consultations.
CHINA emphasized that a shared vision should be comprehensive, covering all building blocks and the Convention’s principles.
While stressing that adaptation and mitigation should receive equal treatment and resources, INDONESIA called for a shared understanding on e2 80 9cpolitical parity.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported, inter alia, an international review process and accounting and reporting of emissions and LULUCF, as well as tradable units or offsets.
On the CDM, the G-77/CHINA pointed to deficiencies in the text, including the absence of a section on ef bf bdnature and scope ef bf bd and the lack of a determination of what the driving force of the CDM should be.
The US, with Australia, Slovenia, Norway, and Canada, supported the consideration of a multi-year work programme, and the streamlining of each session 92s agenda.
ECUADOR supported references to “integrity, legitimacy and reputation,” which others opposed, with the US noting these did not have shared definitions.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, supported preparing a paper, and VENEZUELA noted it should include historical cumulative emissions.
e2 80 9d The EU, supported by the Republic of Korea, outlined a sequence in the mitigation cycle: a strategic review of implementation in the context of science; communication and commitments, involving the submission of NDCs; an ex ante process to gain an aggregate sense of NDCs in relation to the temperature goal; and the formalization of NDCs.
SWITZERLAND, CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA opposed a short-term quantitative goal in the post-2020 period.
NORWAY noted relevant decisions supporting and underpinning the work that will be done on adaptation.
G77/CHINA indicated that no single indicator is \t\tapplicable to all but said the use of standard indicators would allow \t\tcomparison of like with like.AOSIS asked for studies showing emission \t\tpathways leading to temperature increases below 2 ef bf bdC.
On measures of vulnerability, CARICOM highlighted limitations with using a country’s GDP as an indicator.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the need for greater mutual understanding in negotiations.
The US, supported by the Netherlands, proposed moving sub-paragraph 1(a)(v) to follow 2(d), since it deals with the same topic.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that the final report of the expert review team should include the rationale for the adjustment and identification of steps the Party concerned could take in order to address the underlying causes of the inventory problem.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported a mechanism for facilitating and coordinating developing country access to financing.
The US said the funds could be used to support developing country needs identified in relation to TGICA and, with the Netherlands, to support participation of developing country experts and authors.
SAUDI ARABIA said that SBSTA should not engage in any details at this stage and cautioned against scheduling the workshop during the Ramadan period.
MEXICO responded that this scenario was not envisaged.
Observing that emissions trends left "no grounds for complacency," the EU proposed that the review process be considered at SB-17.
 : Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the work of the Technology Executive Committee (TEC) and urged operationalizing the work programme and holding a forum on response measures.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that the G-77/CHINA proposal intends to contribute towards assessing the progress towards the 2020 finance objective.
He reiterated the EU’s commitment to reduce emissions unilaterally by 20% from 1990 levels by 2020, and increase reductions to 30% in the context of global efforts.
On capacity-building, NEPAL, for LDCs, stressed that institutional capacity-building is a priority need and called for the immediate implementation of the work programme under UNFCCC Article 6 (education, training and public awareness).
NEW ZEALAND said the SAR should be referred in its entirety to the COP and the AGBM.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that reaching an agreement on the second commitment period is a legal obligation and stressed the need for clear commitments by Annex I parties, in line with science.
INDIA highlighted that progress should be measured against the Bali Action Plan.
INDIA and CHINA stressed the need to address all four elements of the Bali Action Plan equally.
The G-77/China said the US proposal does not address the problems with the current financial mechanism.
COLOMBIA said the Chair should work with the drafting group facilitators to prepare draft decision texts to facilitate discussions.
The US said a post-2012 agreement must reflect global changes since the 1990s.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the transparency framework and GST negotiations should address loss and damage.
On a question by CHINA on measures being undertaken by Austria in the transport sector, Austria noted its legislation on vehicle fuel consumption and ongoing discussions on policies at the EU level.
The EU proposed three separate annexes to the protocol, drawing distinctions between mandatory, coordinated and optional P&amp;Ms.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for an adaptation framework covering the full costs, as well as an international mechanism for addressing loss and damage.
Kuwait, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted overall assessments of NDCs and information on mobilization of support.
THAILAND said that it had not nominated any expert on the understanding that there were a limited number developing country participating in the review process.
The US noted that parties have proposed enhancing other channels to address response measures.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said time allotted to agenda items should be guided by the topics’ complexity, and highlighted transparency negotiations as cross-cutting, complex, and time-consuming.
On the IPCC 92s Good Practice Guidance (GPG), NEW ZEALAND suggested focusing on the GPG as a whole.
India, supported by the UK, suggested the possibility of funding short-term student visits to TSUs.
ARGENTINA stressed the need to focus on implementation of actions.
The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by AOSIS, said those aiming to leave the Kyoto Protocol are doing so because they want to do less.
The EU noted that the discounted forest management value proposed by Croatia exceeds the value provided by the FAO, and said the matter should be forwarded to SBSTA for consideration once the question of the base-year emissions has been resolved.
Responding to a question from the PHILIPPINES concerning the role of the private sector in adaptation studies, Feenstra noted that the private sector can play a part, but much work is needed to raise its understanding and awareness of climate change.
When considering the Draft Guidance on Methodologies for Adjustments, the EU, with SWITZERLAND and SLOVAKIA, said the trial period on inventory review would provide the IPCC with the information on problems to be addressed.
ALGERIA mentioned the UN Convention \t\tto Combat Desertification where problems with technology transfer and \t\tfinancing are also halting implementation and said that the carbon \t\tmarket was necessary but insufficient.
OPEC \t\tsaid that the adverse effects of policies and measures on OPEC States \t\tmust be considered, expressed concern about calls for new climate change \t\tcommitments for developing countries, and stressed that developing \t\tcountries cannot be expected to prioritize mitigation over other more \t\tpressing needs.
The EU, BRAZIL, INDIA, CHINA and SAMOA noted that such modifications implied significant work at this late stage of the meeting and said it risked undermining or prejudging the work of SBSTA.
SAUDI ARABIA and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, opposed by MEXICO, AUSTRALIA and COLOMBIA, proposed that examination of options for new channels for observer organizations to provide inputs into the COP and COP/MOP be deferred to SBI 36 instead of SBI 35.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by many parties, emphasized the need to integrate multiple revenue streams and organize them to facilitate a step-wise process, with scaled-up and unconditional ODA and earmarked market-linked funding.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, reiterated that discussions on response measures should be distinct from discussions on adaptation and called for the proposed workshop to have a narrow focus.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed that capacity building is for developing countries and highlighted that it would be difficult to discuss capacity building for developed countries in text concerning developing countries.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, underscored compensation for victims of climate change and immediate funding and implementation of completed National Adaptation Plans of Action.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN and NORWAY, called for a broader discussion of what is happening globally, saying it is important to analyze the level of ambition of the “flood of international pledges” in the wake of Copenhagen.
BRAZIL called for a TEM on how to recognize the social and economic value of voluntary mitigation activities and translate their results into units of financial value.
BRAZIL said EITs exist only in the context of the Kyoto Protocol.
Honduras, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM (SICA), called for progress on: adaptation in regions of high vulnerability enabled by adequate, predictable, sustained and additional financial resources; and the work programme on loss and damage that should focus on harm prevention and reduction rather than risk assessment.
The US called for the TEC to manage the agenda and proceedings of the TEMs.
Regarding a sentence stating that   (RFCs) implies a limit for future cumulative CO2 emissions, Saudi Arabia and Australia, opposed by Germany, France, the US, Spain, Saint Lucia and others, preferred referring to emissions from all GHGs.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA said the Chair should not allow further negotiation on the text.
NEW ZEALAND observed the structure of the section could be clarified, and noted, with the EU, the link between the sections in the negotiating text on time frames and mitigation.
AUSTRALIA reported on its clean energy future package, which she said will drive “the biggest expansion in the clean energy sector in Australia’s history.”
The UK urged acceptance of previously agreed text, and Saudi Arabia agreed to maintain the text as presented.
SWITZERLAND said the review of the GEF ef bf bds enabling activities was a high quality report that is strong on findings and recommendations.
CHINA called for distillation of the SAR to a form that could be more useful to the SBSTA in making recommendations, otherwise the SAR should be submitted in its entirety to the COP.
On aspects of support to be subject to MRV, the US said MRV of support refers to supported mitigation actions and proposed using existing mechanisms such as national communications and expert review teams.
COLOMBIA stressed that technical aspects of Article 3.3, such as establishing what is meant by net change in stock, must be resolved.
In response to questions, she noted revenues from auctioned allowances under the EU ETS are earmarked to help reach future climate-related targets.
The EU called for a commitment cycle of 10 years and, supported by the US, for a five-year cycle of review and revision.
Cuba, for a number of developing countries including the AFRICAN GROUP and the ARAB GROUP, opposed the establishment of a global target for the shipping sector.
BRAZIL highlighted that: some countries have not put forward unconditional targets; others presented conditions that are outdated, unclear or qualitative; and many countries’ targets do not include pathways to achievement.
The EU stressed, however, that the COP/MOP’s decision must be limited to the basis on which Croatia’s appeal has been launched.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, welcomed the start of discussions on the NDC registry and the advice of how the IPCC assessment reports can feed into the global stocktake.
On finance, BANGLADESH highlighted that consultations had resulted in two potentially acceptable options on the establishment of the fund, noting compromises that could be made across the text.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that comprehensive reporting is fundamental for the adequate implementation of the Convention, and called on parties to use national communications as an opportunity to learn from each other.
MALAYSIA expressed disappointment and said the report clearly describes developed country indifference.
NORWAY and CANADA \t\tsuggested that some recommendations on streamlining the process could be \t\timplemented straight away.
The Russian Federation, supported by the EU, China and Kuwait, said this proposal was completely unacceptable because it would cast doubt on the use of all six languages and revise a standard UN practice.
IRAN, on behalf of the Asian Group, said that if there were any allocation, the Asian Group was the largest and should have a proportional share of the Bureau.
The EU stressed the need to limit global warming to below 2°C and to avoid the possible crossing of critical thresholds.
ECUADOR called for language on “respect for traditional knowledge.” COSTA RICA, with the PHILIPPINES, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, SUDAN and TANZANIA, highlighted the need to address sustainable livelihoods.
Supported by the EU and BRAZIL, he indicated that it is important to learn lessons from fast-start finance.
SURINAME highlighted international displacement of emissions from deforestation.
INDIA and others proposed extending the adaptation levy to all mechanisms and creating other financial instruments.
SWITZERLAND identified addressing the carry-over of surplus AAUs as a way to raise ambition.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized the need for balanced funding in the biennial budget for items such as workshops.
The UK suggested e2 80 9cinternational levies, e.g., CDM levies, e2 80 9d to which Edenhofer replied that the only international levy was under the CDM.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that during COP 15, Annex B parties supported a goal of limiting temperature increase to below 2°C, and highlighted that the pledges so far made by these parties will not achieve this goal.
GHANA said technology transfer must include know-how and human-resource development.
CANADA proposed that discussion be guided \t\tby long-term cooperative action.
Ecuador, for ALBA, stressed the need to move forward with certainty that Qatar will take up issues of justice and equity.
The G-77/CHINA called for informal consultations by Chair Ashe.
The US said that the Convention was developed on the basis of proposals that did not identify the sources, and, supported by NORWAY, cautioned against establishing a new practice.
BAHRAIN inquired about embassy access to negotiation information.
Co-Chair Parry indicated that a \t\t\ttable on examples of current and potential options for adaptation \t\t\thad originally been included at the request of the US.
The US and CHINA said that identifying experts without a clear understanding of the TAPs could not be done on the basis of informal consultations.
The US added that developing countries should be eligible for support in implementing their contributions, and that LDCs and others should have flexibility to submit at their discretion without expectation.
JAPAN emphasized that the impact of Annex I countries that are Protocol parties is limited because they account for only 30% of total emissions.
The EU cautioned against e2 80 9cbeing wed e2 80 9d to the Geneva text, adding that if parties agree to change it, then they should do so.
Tuvalu, supported by AOSIS, argued that this agenda item required formal consideration, and proposed suspending the COP until the issue is resolved.
NEW ZEALAND, TOGO and the EU called for prioritizing the most vulnerable countries, and the GAMBIA and BHUTAN emphasized LDCs.
NEW ZEALAND said flexibility will be a key factor in AGBM process and outcomes.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted concerns relating to predictability and adequacy of funding.
Venezuela, with Angola, for the African Group, drew attention to the option of not taking any decision on market approaches, while the US stressed the centrality of market approaches.
The Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) reported on its updated Implementation Plan, noting that the additional annual cost of a fully effective GCOS will be US$2.1 billion.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for greater urgency appropriate to the scale of the challenge, especially in identifying a time frame for peaking of global emissions.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, said the discussion on afforestation and reforestation under the CDM must maintain the social, environmental and economic integrity of the mechanism.
VENEZUELA, with Angola, for the AFRICAN GROUP, drew attention to the option of not taking any decision on market approaches, while the US stressed the centrality of market approaches.
On guidance to the Special Climate Change Fund, Parties agreed to a proposal from the EU to conclude a decision at COP-9.
Australia, New Zealand and the US said adaptation and mitigation could be considered as separate agenda items.
The Russian Federation, supported by the EU, China and Kuwait, said this proposal was unacceptable.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed reservations with the way the text has been consolidated, noting missing proposals and elements.
JAPAN highlighted the need for accounting rules to be flexible enough to accommodate and maximize parties’ mitigation efforts.
MAURITANIA and ICELAND cautioned against concentrating solely on forests and conservation.
VENEZUELA lamented the lack of domestic policies and said the objective is to stabilize greenhouse gases, not the carbon markets.
JAMAICA underlined the need for future workshops aimed at concrete actions.
 \t\tPalau, for AOSIS, cited lack of funding \t\tfor adaptation as a major failure of the Convention and proposed a new \t\tfund based on the ef bf bdpolluter pays principle ef bf bd to link emissions to Annex I \t\tcountries funding commitments.
CHINA suggested applying a similar condition to the funding country to confirm how a CDM would result in certified emissions reductions (CERs).
The three candidates for ADP Chair were Harald Dovland (Norway), nominated by the Western Europe and Others Group, Kishan Kumarsingh (Trinidad and Tobago), nominated by the Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC) and Jayant Moreshwar Mauskar (India), nominated by the Asia-Pacific Group.
The EU called for a prioritized work program for Protocol activities.
On a paragraph referring to key needs to enable developing countries, particularly the LDCs, Africa and SIDS, to participate in the CDM, Panama, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM, opposed by the EU, suggested including reference to the most vulnerable regions and countries.
The EU and JAPAN favored a longer high-level segment as required.
BOLIVIA described outcomes of the World People’s Conference on Climate Change, held in Cochabamba, Bolivia, in April 2010.
CHILE said the AGBM needs to take a political decision and recalled that when the UNFCCC was negotiated, the EU made a binding declaration to establish a stronger sense of commitment.
SWITZERLAND underscored consideration of specific national circumstances.
SWITZERLAND suggested drawing on work undertaken by UNDP and the GEF, and noted the importance of ensuring consistency between work done under the GEF and UNFCCC.
Responding to the US proposal, TANZANIA suggested using the structure in place under the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund to address issues of governance and access.
With UGANDA and NORWAY, he supported basing definitions on those agreed for Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4.
Noting that countries have said they will adjust their targets depending on the rules adopted, TUVALU highlighted the importance of ensuring that LULUCF rules are the tightest possible to meet the environmental integrity requirements and not give countries too much flexibility to make adjustments to their pledges.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the group’s commitment to the fulfillment of the BAP and finding appropriate solutions to issues not addressed in Cancun.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized the need to leave Panama with clarity on the road ahead, and “a negotiating text in hand.” Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored achieving the objectives of the BAP and fulfilling legal obligations, without excuses or conditionalities.
The US noted that it is uncertain “what the configuration of Copenhagen might be regarding the fate of the Kyoto Protocol” and suggested addressing such uncertainty by adding language that: “the COP shall take decisions necessary to enable the applicability of the CDM under this agreement.” ALGERIA noted that countries wishing to use the CDM could ratify the Protocol.
The US noted China’s proposal would entail renegotiating Convention Article 3.5, which does not prohibit unilateral measures that are consistent with agreements under the World Trade Organization (WTO).
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, expressed concern at the \t\tslow disbursement of funds for the preparation of national adaptation \t\tprogrammes of action (NAPA).
CANADA proposed Article 5 be removed, suggesting addressing loss and damage in a COP decision.
NEW ZEALAND said the AGBM’s core objective refers to Annex I Parties, but the Group must not lose sight of the obligations of all Parties.
UGANDA, opposed by the US, said \t\tdecision 10/CP.9 (adaptation and mitigation) mandates SBSTA to do more \t\tthan merely facilitate information exchange among Parties.
TUVALU said the option of negative lists should not be deleted, as he was unsure of how technologies, like nuclear energy, would be addressed.
The US called for comprehensive coverage and consistency between the Protocol and the Convention.
On ministerial engagement, the EU, Chile, AILAC and AOSIS supported ministerial engagement under workstream 2.
MALAYSIA, BELIZE, the PHILIPPINES, UGANDA, INDIA and CHILE opposed AIJ as a means of or conditionality for technology transfer or other bilateral assistance.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said text on providing finance, technology and capacity building should be specific to LDCs.
Chair Patrick Sz e9ll (UK) recalled that during AG13-5, delegates agreed that the MCP should be advisory rather than supervisory in nature.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS emphasized that climate change and rising sea levels affect his country’s security, statehood and survival.
INDIA, with GUYANA, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, highlighted the importance of identifying activities and actions that would qualify for REDD-plus before addressing principles.
NEW ZEALAND supported the “non-proliferation principle” of a single Secretariat and utilizing existing subsidiary bodies.
Expressing concern about lack of progress, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, lamented that parties are attempting to renegotiate the Paris Agreement.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), reiterated the need for developed countries to fulfill their ambitions in reducing emissions, highlighting the efforts of developing countries in reducing emissions.
JAPAN warned against prejudging work undertaken on the creation of new mechanisms under the Paris Agreement.
\t\tAlthough JAPAN and the NETHERLANDS expressed reservations about this, \t\tAUSTRALIA 92s suggestion was agreed to.
The EIG said the session should improve parties’ understanding of the issues mandated to the APA, and proposed technical submissions and a Co-Chairs’ reflection note after the session.
  In the sub-group on sectoral approaches, URUGUAY, supported by ARGENTINA, MEXICO and others, highlighted the agricultural sector’s mitigation potential.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and the EU, called for amending the agenda item on the registry of NDCs by removing a reference to Paris Agreement Article 4.12 (on a public registry for NDCs) from its title.
VENEZUELA said the CDM has a “shameful” record on hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which increase pollution, while BOLIVIA highlighted their negative experiences with CDM projects.
The UK, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested that since a procedure could not guarantee compliance, the objective "to prevent non-compliance with commitments under the Protocol" be deleted.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and the US emphasized making the five-year cycle clear.
SINGAPORE opposed the introduction of new criteria, such as GDP, for differentiating countries.
The EU looked forward to the MA as an important opportunity to show transparency, and highlighted: the Secretariat’s biennial budget; the CDM and JI, including their reform; and enhancing the NAP process and the LEG.
The EU noted that such language would limit the countries that would receive capacity building assistance.
EGYPT called for the \t\tinclusion of the global warming potential of aerosols, particularly from \t\tindustry.
 SWITZERLAND stressed the need to address technical issues and leave political issues to the political level.
On adaptation, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted: the development of modalities and guidelines on the process for LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans (NAPs); modalities and guidelines for the NAPs of developing countries in general; and concluding the work programme on loss and damage.
The US noted that the UN Charter and UNFCCC rules of procedure do not provide guidance on principles, but accepted referencing inclusive, transparent and efficient negotiations.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for closer scrutiny of the global warming potential (GWP) of CFC substitutes.
MEXICO highlighted important mitigation potential in his country’s agricultural sector, saying approximately fifty percent of the emissions could be reduced.
JAPAN sought to include text specifying that \t\tmortality only occurs near injection points, while CHILE, supported by \t\tMALAYSIA and CHINA, said ocean effects could not be inferred from the \t\tresults of studies in confined environments.
VENEZUELA called for the SBSTA to consider the IPCC’s Special Report     on        1.5 c2 b0C.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that the function of deciding which referrals to pursue be done by a body other than the compliance body.
GUATEMALA, on behalf of the Central America Group, and PANAMA described political changes in their region and activities, such as recognizing the validity of the IPCC and promoting awareness of the human impact on the environment and consolidating national environmental legal instruments.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by AILAC and Angola, for the LDCs, noted that the 2013-2015 review underscored the inadequacy of the 2 c2 b0C limit, adding that a 1.5 c2 b0C limit is still feasible but the window for action is closing.
SAUDI ARABIA said sectoral approaches should enhance implementation of Convention Article 4.1(c) (development, application and diffusion, including transfer, of technologies).
Trinidad and Tobago said the submission of the AOSIS draft protocol must be registered.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA’s work to be guided by a greater sense of urgency and ambition.
ITALY proposed ensuring stability through the election of a president and a vice-president, and appointing members on the principle of rotation, with two-year memberships.
NIGERIA noted that issues such as adaptation, finance, technology and capacity building need to be elaborated.
BRAZIL, CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA stressed that there are no links between AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group (a loose alliance of Annex I Parties that includes Canada, Australia, Japan, the Russian Federation, and New Zealand) did not join the consensus, with key areas of dispute including eligibility requirements and bankability under the mechanisms.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of a mechanism to ensure implementation of Article 4.8 and 4.9, and expedited activities under Article 4.9 (LDCs).
Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested that: co-facilitators use different approaches given the differences in the substantive issues; and co-chairs ensure a comparable treatment and progress in all areas, and capture progress in a reflection note with summaries by co-facilitators attached.
 MAURITIUS invited the Secretariat to recirculate letters of invitation for expert participation in the review process.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a technical paper reflecting policy options for specific mitigation solutions in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy and carbon capture and storage.
Emphasizing that the “issue of vulnerability is not a matter for negotiation,” Uganda, for the LDCs, lamented that some elements important to the LDCs were missing from the text.
Citing uncertainties and lack of \t\t\tvalue added, China, with Brazil and Saudi Arabia, and opposed by \t\t\tGermany, the UK and others, called for removing a paragraph noting \t\t\tan increase of information allowing calculation of the amount of \t\t\tmitigation needed to avoid impacts.
VENEZUELA underscored that the Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Finance is a process outside the UNFCCC with limited participation and noted the need to think about the lack of coordination between bilateral and multilateral levels.
The EU said it would \t\tsupport elaborating a multi-year work programme.
BRAZIL stressed: equity and ambition as mutually supportive; the importance of attractive agreements, pointing to possible examples to look towards, such as the WTO and the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (disarmament treaty); that “no party exits the Kyoto Protocol to do more”; and the importance of recognizing ambition, pointing to developing countries that have put forward NAMAs as an example.
 \t\t\tCanada, supported by the US, proposed deleting a sentence noting \t\t\tthat the potential benefits of technology transfer to developing \t\t\tcountries may be substantial but that no reliable estimates exist.
CANADA, the EU, NORWAY, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the importance of issues addressed in this paragraph, and favored retaining it in some form.
The US and Saudi Arabia expressed hesitance that a high-quality report could be completed by COP-13.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA noted that the discussion focused mainly on the demand side of technology transfer and stressed the need to examine the supply of technology.
On finance, MEXICO, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested that the group should wait until discussion had proceeded in other contact groups.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the description of policies and measures should include a section on mitigation.
With the support of JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA and the EU, he proposed replacing the decision and its associated initiatives with alternative text stating that consideration of demonstrable progress cannot take place until the SBSTA has considered the issue pursuant to the guidelines that may be elaborated under Article 7.
Noting positive GEF reforms resulting in increased access to funds for LDCs, the GAMBIA expressed hope that the fifth replenishment would enhance funding under the LDC Fund.
France, on behalf of the EU, recommended continued use of draft guidelines for national communication, and collaboration between subsidiary bodies of the Convention and the IPCC on revisions of the guidelines.
The EU, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION reiterated their preference for making use of existing channels such as national communications and the SBI, while ARGENTINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SUDAN and CHINA supported establishing a new forum for exchanging information and facilitating dialogue.
A number of parties supported addressing the text thematically, with Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), and Jamaica, for AOSIS, proposing to start with text on monitoring and evaluation.
NORWAY stressed the need for clarity on the role of the land sector and markets.
The COP draft decision on guidance to an entity entrusted with the operation of the UNFCCC financial mechanism for the LDC Fund (FCCC/SBI/2002/L.21), requests the financial mechanism to ensure the speedy release and disbursements of funds and timely assistance for the preparation of NAPAs and the organization of four regional workshops on the advancement of the preparation of NAPAs.
TOGO and CHINA stressed financial and technology needs.
SENEGAL said the debt burden was a serious hindrance to sustainable development and the marginalization of Africa made equity a particular concern.
The EU and AOSIS said the proposed definitions on the "project boundary" should be amended to differentiate between boundaries relevant to accounting methods and those exclusively geographical in nature.
NORWAY said adaptation communications are “just one part of the picture” for adaptation support.
Barbados, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), called for scientific studies on the implications for small island developing states (SIDS) of temperature increases at and above 2ºC.
The President said each of the five regional groups are to be represented by two Bureau members and one Bureau member will represent the small island developing States (SIDS).
Russia proposed \t\tincreasing the levy to US$0.50 to accommodate the financial concerns \t\tthat the G-77/China raised in the JI contact group.
The group agreed to text approving a draw-down of US$2 million from the unspent balance or contributions (carry-overs) from the previous biennium to cover part of the 2000-2001 budget.
The US said it could \t\t\tagree to the mitigation sentence, but expressed concern on the \t\t\tcombination of the two sentences.
CHINA, supported by BOTSWANA and SENEGAL, and opposed by the EU and SRI LANKA, proposed that NGOs only be allowed to make submissions on the work programme if requested to do so by their national focal points.
Delegates then discussed specific text in the proposed terms of reference on this expert group ef bf bds mandate, with the EU, supported by other Annex I Parties, bracketing text relating to implementation of NAPAs.
India underscored: lack of clarity on how developed countries’ contributions to mitigation defined according to national circumstances, as proposed by the US, would address the closure of the pre-2020 ambition gap; and the need for clear milestones for provision of finance and technology.
Switzerland, Germany, and \t\tseveral others requested additional information on specific budgetary \t\titems, while the UK, Germany, and others noted that governments need \t\tguidance on required contributions.
CHINA opposed linking discussions under the AWG-KP with actions by major emitters.
On reporting efforts to address potential consequences, the EU, with CANADA, noted that reporting requirements exist.
France, for the EU, linked sectoral approaches to carbon markets and cautioned against bottom-up approaches.
CANADA welcomed discussions on policy issues, including on how much developed countries should do domestically.
Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of the global stocktake to determine “whether the Paris Agreement is sufficient for dealing with runaway climate change.”
The US urged to test the revised methods for validity and workability and apply them, where possible, by 1997.
NORWAY asked parties to consider the best placement for eligibility requirements.
The new Australian text, with support from the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, provides for Annex I Parties to ensure that their net anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions as listed in Annex A do not exceed their commitments in terms of emission budgets/target year, inscribed in Attachment I.
VENEZUELA stated that 4.2(d) only calls for review of commitments under 4.2(a) and (b).
Expressing regret for the situation, The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by Guyana, for GRULAC, the EU, the US, Australia, AOSIS and the Russian Federation, proposed that the COP Presidency preside over the ADP until matters concerning the election of its Bureau are resolved.
URUGUAY noted the need to transfer concrete emission reduction projects, not just surveys and reports.
Uganda, for the LDCs, suggested the co-chairs provide an abstract of the key elements desired in the technology section.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, regretted lack of agreement on capacity building.
MOROCCO, for G-77/China, called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol and for the US to "come back on board," and expressed concern about the low level of financial contributions to the Secretariat.
On Thursday, 3 December, Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), asked to include details on a long-term vision and urged avoiding prescriptive language.
AOSIS stressed coherence of action on adaptation under the Convention.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, and Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, called for support for the full implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
TUVALU, opposed by CHINA and the US, suggested not referring to the need to progress on all items in a “balanced” manner, noting that some issues can be dealt with quickly.
Calling for a prompt start to the Review, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, with SINGAPORE, the EU and others, emphasized the need for a narrow focus on scope in the context of what was agreed in Cancun.
AUSTRALIA said the Party concerned should have the option to choose from a menu of consequences.
IRAN noted that the principle of cost- effectiveness was not applied in AIJ process and that some AIJ projects have been financed with GEF funds.
SLOVAKIA stressed the need to move beyond politicized negotiations to real action.
The EU reaffirmed the GEF’s role as the UNFCCC’s financial mechanism.
Belize, for SICA, urged efforts to enhance the global observation programmes, and called for engagement on CCS, standardized baselines, common metrics and forests in exhaustion.
Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that the provision of funds should be undertaken by the respective thematic boards with overall supervision by the finance board.
JAPAN and the GAMBIA supported considering positive impacts and co-benefits.
With SWITZERLAND, she said CDM projects should be subjected to rigorous impact assessment studies that take into account the socio-economic aspects of the host country.
Reporting on informal discussions held after the spin-off, BOTSWANA said a group of parties was unable to agree on the mode of work and had not engaged in substantive discussions.
On the definitions on afforestation, reforestation and deforestation (ARD), JAPAN highlighted the FAO activity-based approach, with the harvest-regeneration cycle included under reforestation.
BANGLADESH and AOSIS supported regional innovation centers.
SAUDI ARABIA underscored that the G-77/CHINA needed more time to consider the guidelines.
The EU recalled that they did not favor the establishment of the green fund last year but stated that they now “strongly support” it as something that was agreed in Copenhagen.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized that NAMAs should be designed to: ensure “maximum flexibility;” respect the diversity of actions; promote further action; and include poverty reduction aims, beyond emission reductions.
The US said the transparency system should provide feedback and build capacity, not just supply funds.
 The MEF took place at the leaders’ representatives’ level in Crystal City, Virginia, US, from 17-18 November 2010.
The US said that although her country makes yearly methodological and data updates, explaining the resulting inconsistencies to the reviewers does not present a problem.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed negotiating adaptation and mitigation matters in a balanced manner and ensuring a “package” can be reached by 2018.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA expressed concern with the lack of support from developed countries for the implementation of the capacity building framework.
SRI LANKA and PALAU, speaking also for Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, proposed an ecosystem approach to adaptation.
Noting that parties’ emissions will peak at different times, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said contributions should be legally-binding and annexed to the agreement.
The EU called for deepening the debate on mitigation, including on MRV and new market mechanisms, and highlighted the need for a comprehensive and inclusive legally-binding framework.
The EU \t\tsuggested the option of an extra percentage of additional removals to \t\taccount for leakage.
In March 2001, the US administration repudiated the agreement reached in Kyoto, stating that it considered the Protocol to be "fatally flawed," as it would damage its economy and exempt key developing countries from emissions reduction targets.
The EU opposed breaking up the paragraph, highlighting their desire to address information and what parties will do with information under a single paragraph.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted that the text would benefit from further technical work and that some core issues in the AWG-KP will require consultations at the political level.
On greenhouse gases, sectors and source categories, CANADA stressed that the implications of adding a new gas should be explored before such an addition, and NEW ZEALAND suggested that links to ozone depletion be considered.
The EU declared that there is much to be collectively proud of under the AWG-LCA, but that more urgent action is necessary to meet the 2°C target.
UGANDA \t\tsaid mitigation can be considered a form of adaptation, since mitigating \t\tearly avoids future costs of adaptation.
NEW ZEALAND, noting the importance of an improved CDM, supported the establishment of new mechanisms to mobilize finance and encourage technology transfer.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, called for indicating that the AWG-LCA would also meet in conjunction with COP 16.
NICARAGUA highlighted the importance of domestic reductions.
• requests the GEF to: provide funding from the LDC Fund to meet the agreed full cost of activities to enable the preparation of national adaptation plans by LDCs; provide support for the national adaptation plan process; and encourage a flexible approach that enables LDCs to access funding;
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a decision on finance, scaling up mitigation and support for adaptation.
The 20th meeting of the MEF convened on 21 September 2014, in New York, US.
The G-77/China, the EU, AOSIS, the African Group, the LDCs, the Environment Integrity Group, the Umbrella Group and SBI Chair Robert Owen-Jones then thanked UNFCCC Executive Secretary de Boer for his leadership.
 \t\tThe EU added that a key issue for consideration within SBSTA is the \t\ttreatment of geological CCS in national inventories to ensure leakage is \t\tproperly accounted for.
Noting the different stages of R&amp;D, demonstration and deployment, the US stated that: there is a clear government role for R&amp;D; government can help in demonstration; and all governments must establish laws and policies to create the necessary private investment for deployment.
On ranges, CHINA called for a decision on a “clear and aggressive” range.
The UK called for removing subsidies on the use of fossil fuels, introducing competitiveness into energy markets, increasing road fuel duties, improving fuel efficiency in cars, increasing tax on aviation fuel by removing the present exemption and improving domestic efficiency standards.
CANADA suggested including information from bilateral and multilateral organizations.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, highlighted outstanding issues, including operationalization of an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol beginning on 1 January 2013, and commitment by Annex I parties to ambitious QELROs.
He urged delegates to bring together the AOSIS protocol and the EU framework to develop a protocol with binding emission reduction commitments and time-tables.
While acknowledging that adaptation is an additional burden on developing countries, NORWAY cautioned against creating an “adaptation sector.” She highlighted subsidiarity as key to adaptation processes, where adaptation actions are based on, and respond to, needs at the lowest and local levels.
BRAZIL, supported by SINGAPORE and the US, said a reference to sustainable development should remain in the paragraph.
 Informal consultations were co-facilitated by Andrew Rakestraw (US), who solicited countries’ views on the co-facilitators’ informal note containing draft elements.
He said four contact groups would meet on: scale of emission reductions (“numbers”), co-chaired by Jürgen Lefevere (EU) and Janine Coye Felson (Belize); other issues, including LULUCF, the flexibility mechanisms and methodological issues, chaired by AWG-KP Vice-Chair Adrian Macey (New Zealand); potential consequences, co-chaired by Eduardo Calvo Buendía (Peru) and Andrew Ure (Australia); and legal matters, co-chaired by Gerhard Loibl (Austria) and Daniel Ortega (Ecuador).
Australia, with Canada, the EU and AOSIS, supported discussions on the TAR as a separate agenda item.
He cited \t\tStern ef bf bds observation about the potentially catastrophic impact of a 2 ef bf bdC \t\ttemperature rise on SIDS, and called for the impact on SIDS to become \t\tthe benchmark for the determination of future climate change targets.
PERU highlighted lack of funds for \t\tvulnerability and adaptation assessments, and difficulties in proving \t\tglobal benefits of adaptation projects for accessing GEF funds.
Nepal, for the LDCs, proposed a workshop on adaptation and stressed the need to clarify added value of the new agreement for addressing adaptation in developing countries.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, called for an advisory regime to assist implementation, which would have a broad competence but not encroach on other bodies.
Karl Hood, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that a system based on multilateral rules is essential for the survival of vulnerable countries.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the \t\timportance of continuing work, but questioned whether understanding of \t\taerosols is adequately developed.
JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, the US, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and CANADA opposed creating binary divisions on commitments, based on annexes or the distinction between developed and developing countries.
While agreeing to consider it, the G-77/CHINA \t\tstressed that the proposal did not take into account delays in funding \t\tdisbursement.
The G-77/CHINA said it had prepared a draft decision covering similar aspects and including others such as guidance on the scope of the workshop on the IPCC Special Report.
SENEGAL underlined the need to address provision of resources to vulnerable countries and to establish a financial mechanism on adaptation under the Convention.
INDIA stressed ambition must also cover means of implementation and MRV of support to ensure broad participation, and said that short-term difficulties should not “tie hands” on ambition.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, described the Paris Agreement as a resounding triumph of multilateralism and welcomed increased ambition, in the form of the 1.5 c2 b0C goal, and the separate treatment of loss and damage in the agreement.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, the EU and AOSIS, supported discussions on the TAR as a separate agenda item.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by TURKEY, BELARUS and KAZAKHSTAN, proposed also deleting option 1, which states that Article 3.7ter is not applicable in the second commitment period of parties that did not have QELRCs during the first commitment period.
The EU suggested text on reporting on capacity-building activities relating to technology transfer in national communications.
MICRONESIA, ITALY, CHILE, LITHUANIA, CYPRUS and the SOLOMON ISLANDS stated that they were in the process of ratifying the Protocol.
He also proposed an international insurance mechanism and TUVALU suggested organizing a workshop on risk management and insurance.
AOSIS called for discussion on risk management and the impacts of slow-onset events.
The US and NEW ZEALAND recommended narrowing the number of options for further action.
He noted that even though the US raised the objection in Plenary, several other countries had expressed their support for the US position during the contact group.
Antigua and Barbuda, speaking for the G-77/China, expressed regret that expectations for Poznań had not been met, calling for a radical change in approach.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the imperative for accelerating progress under the AWG-KP and the need for focusing on efficient institutions and robust carbon markets.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) noted the vulnerability of oil-producing countries to the impacts of response measures and called for a permanent forum on response measures.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported by the EU and JAPAN, opposed adjourning the meeting.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by UGANDA, said the data reported by Parties rather than the database should be referred to as the "authoritative source."
The US, JAPAN, PANAMA, COLOMBIA, AUSTRALIA and others supported workshops for AIJ and many delegations recommended use of a uniform reporting format that is not onerous for developing countries.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, registered deep concern over the lack of ambition, saying that the consequences of a 3°C world had not been fully appreciated.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, stated that for legally-binding provisions, the committee should focus on compliance and otherwise on facilitating actions.
Canada, Australia, Japan and the US called for an approach identifying functions prior to discussion of form.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed a middle path consisting of national measures.
 The US said economic growth is one of many other factors, so the text should not be changed.
The US, supported by JAPAN, called for excluding reference to loss and damage, saying this was not an aspect referred to in Decision 1/CP.17.
On Tuesday, 2 December, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored the need for financial and technical resources.
SAMOA questioned how the COP could proceed with only part of the Bureau.
The US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, suggested that where members from one branch participate in the work of the other, it be on a non-voting basis.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged starting substantive negotiations.
The EU expressed preference for a single legally-binding instrument that would include essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol, but expressed openness to a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period, provided it is part of a wider, more rigorous and ambitious framework.
He also stressed the need for better leadership from developed countries, and criticized the performance of the US and Germany.
BRAZIL suggested e2 80 9cparity between the operational provisions regarding mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
AOSIS suggested an international mechanism to fund development of SIDS-specific technologies.
BOTSWANA said the reason for the slow implementation of the UNFCCC by developing countries is due to lack of capacity.
Regarding a proposed footnote stating that CDR methods carry side effects and long-term consequences on a global scale, many delegations, including the US, Australia, Canada, Norway and Slovenia, requested insertion of a qualifier to indicate that the statement may not apply to all CDR methods.
SOUTH AFRICA underscored the need to review the relationship between the SCF report and the terms of reference of the review.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed changing the work modalities for the possible additional session.
JAPAN presented an alternative draft of the annex, which he said aimed at greater clarity.
On the consequences of non-compliance, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US said the term 93consequence 94 could be replaced by 93outcome, 94 in order to better reflect the possible use of facilitative measures.
 UZBEKISTAN: Victor E. Chub, Minister, Chief of the Main Administration of Hydrometeorology, highlighted the changing water balance of the Aral Sea region, calling for energy efficient technology and regional cooperation.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reminded delegates that the phrase was "AIJ" and not "JI" and that there substantive differences between the two.
SWITZERLAND suggested the committee could offer conclusions on how to improve compliance, along with a statement of concern if goals are far from being achieved.
The UK, Germany and others opposed presenting it as a box, saying that boxes present length and content limitations.
Also, thousands of pledges of action and hundreds of billions of dollars in commitments to emission reductions and resilience measures were articulated through and alongside the LPAA, ranging from electrification in Africa to emission cuts in forest countries and climate risk insurance in SIDS.
In the contact group on Saturday, 6 December, the EU and New Zealand said Protocol development activities should remain in the core budget.
Several developing countries urged a more action-oriented approach while the US and Australia stressed the need to focus on the most critical points.
The US cautioned that such centers should not replicate existing capabilities.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, opposed by Australia and the US, requested attribution of proposals.
CHINA, INDIA and BOLIVIA stressed the need to consider developed countries’ historical responsibility.
On the agenda, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that the conclusions from AWG-KP 11 should include: a clear statement of the AWG-KP’s objective, which is to adopt amendments to the Kyoto Protocol at COP/MOP 6; a work programme containing clear milestones and dates; and modalities for conducting the AWG-KP’s work.
The LDCs emphasized, with CHINA and INDIA, that work under workstream 2 must e2 80 9cshift gears e2 80 9d from technical examination to concrete implementation.
The Philippines, for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), supported guidance on issues, such as what the Fund will do and how to consider funding for projects.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with very little engagement from developed countries and a serious Convention implementation deficit.
The US stated it was committed to the current reduction aims and that the Conference should produce a mandate to negotiate an agreement.
CANADA said Article 4.5 is not limited to financial resources and preferred a general reference to "resources."
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the process ensured party ownership and stressed that the principles of the Convention must be honored to reach an agreement that positively impacts the lives of vulnerable people.
CHINA opposed any major revision to how the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA conduct their work.
The US expressed concern that the amendment could be prejudicial to the Protocol\'s wording, because paragraph 2.3 states that the COP serving as the Meeting of the Parties (MOP) "may take further action" and does not "require" further action to promote implementation of the paragraph\'s provisions.
SWITZERLAND proposed discussing amendments on a paragraph by paragraph basis.
SAUDI ARABIA requested that an assessment of impacts be annexed to a protocol.
MEXICO supported the MOU and Annex.
BOLIVIA highlighted the structural link between climate change and markets and BANGLADESH noted that it is “ironic” that markets are proposed as the solution for a problem they have caused.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, looked forward to working with the Co-Chairs towards a balanced package that will “take us to the finish line.”
The US cautioned against combining a CMP-mandated item with Convention-mandated items, as happened with the item on common metrics.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA lamented the process of discussions on COP items on finance matters.
Australia stressed ensuring the availability of financial resources and, with the US, reviewing the success of the TEMs.
On pre-2020 action, Amber Rudd (UK) reported parties considered a compromise proposal containing a facilitative dialogue, potentially in 2017, that would examine the state of, and options to further enhance, implementation under the Convention for all parties with a stronger focus on developed countries’ undertakings.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented the lack of urgency toward addressing the likely 3-4°C warming, and underlined that although the Cancun Agreements represented a step forward, they still lacked scope, substance and ambition.
On   on Kyoto units, Ukraine, the Russian Federation and others supported no restrictions on banking beyond the second commitment period, while the LDCs, AOSIS, Sudan and others preferred extending current restrictions to the subsequent commitment periods.
Discussing a revised outline on Friday, the US suggested clarifying that international environmental agreements are not part of development policy and, with Mexico, Saudi Arabia and others preferred to avoid naming specific programmes and organizations in the outline.
BOLIVIA outlined a proposed Protocol amendment, emphasizing that developed countries have “expropriated more than their fair share of the earth’s environmental space.” She said repayment of this “climate debt” is simple: those who became wealthy while causing climate change are responsible for compensating those who are poor.
MAURITANIA, CHAD and MOROCCO underscored the need for capacity building for national climate change focal points, the US highlighted the role of the private sector in capacity building, and BOTSWANA supported the establishment of an expert group.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized that some proposals had not yet been discussed in the contact group.
The G-77/ CHINA called on developed countries to fulfill their greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitments and limit adverse effects.
DENMARK noted that his country experiences random electricity emissions fluctuations due to climatic factors.
She indicated that a \t\tpreliminary evaluation of the SBSTA conclusions agreed at this session \t\timplied additional resources of about US$130,000, and stated that any \t\tadditional support would be highly appreciated.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, wished to consult with the Co-Chairs bilaterally on substantive issues.
On high-level engagement, Japan, with the EU, Norway and Bangladesh, supported timely delivery of TEM outcomes to policy makers.
Regarding \t\tconsideration of specific technologies, the G-77/China wanted a listing \t\tof specific technologies to be considered by the EGTT, while the US, EU, \t\tJapan and others said that SBSTA should not 93pick winners.
ARGENTINA called for greater predictability of the provision of MOI for developing countries to allow them to adopt a low-carbon pathway.
SWITZERLAND noted lack of clarity on the way forward and emphasized the importance of clear management of the process by its leaders.
BARBADOS emphasized that the ambition workstream should be approached with a sense of urgency.
BOLIVIA stressed that the credibility of any new legally-binding instrument depends on the adoption of a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The PHILIPPINES noted that the Christmas bonus of one Wall Street banker was higher than the cumulative resources devoted to the LDC Fund.
NEW ZEALAND, with JAPAN and CANADA, said that caps would create a disincentive for LULUCF mitigation efforts.
ECUADOR proposed a compliance regime linked to the International Court of Justice.
The US suggested presenting the whole range of values discussed in the literature.
On a new paragraph noting the need for a more coordinated research approach to address cross-cutting issues, INDIA, MALAYSIA and CHINA, opposed by the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, proposed deleting reference to the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations.
IRAQ and many others called for establishment of the second Kyoto Protocol commitment period.
SAMOA asked that participants also consider the status of Parties in the period between the raising of a question of compliance and its resolution.
On the need to address sustainable development, MALAYSIA called upon the COP to develop a work programme addressesing climate impacts on food security, water resources, coastal zones and oceans and renewable energy.
To avoid greater bureaucracy, CHILE suggested establishing a small body where members would be selected for a specified time and that could meet concurrently with other subsidiary bodies.
With SAUDI ARABIA, he suggested adding a new title to the Elements addressing the implications of Article 18 (non-compliance).
The US proposed text for inclusion in the decisions on the all three WG report outlines clarifying that the bullets are indicative and that authors should follow IPCC guidelines regarding the scientific literature covered.
The UMBRELLA GROUP supported a unified and robust transparency system, covering both action and support applicable to all parties.
The EU stressed linkages between the processes of preparing national communications and NAPAs.
CANADA expressed concern about increasing the reporting burden and highlighted potential commercialization of these chemicals as a means of determining which ones to include.
While some argued that this was not the first time that the EU expressed this position, the announcement launched “fierce” debates on the fate and future of the Protocol.
She explained this work includes: supporting countries in formulating their National Adaptation Plan of Action and national communications; development of guidance documents to support the use of methods and tools; and developing country-level climate profiles in partnership with the UK Department for International Development (DFID).
NORWAY suggested that the Protocol’s reporting guidelines should form the basis for the second commitment period with relevant modifications.
The coalition, formed by the EU, LDCs, and at least ten other countries, called for a robust rulebook to be adopted in Katowice and looked ahead to the 2019 UN Secretary-General Climate Summit as a milestone for raising ambition before 2020.
SIERRA LEONE lamented that climate change funds had not been used in a balanced manner in the past.
On electing the members of the WIM ExCom, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the US recalled statements made in COP plenary, with AOSIS noting that the footnote referring to the election of officers to the WIM does not fully reflect their views on the CMA’s governance of the WIM.
 : On this issue (FCCC/SBI/2012/MISC.8) the PHILIPPINES stressed the need to link it to the provision of resources.
JAPAN maintained that there is no need for a decision on finance in Doha.
CUBA, with SAUDI ARABIA, proposed a workshop on economic and social consequences of response measures.
In response to a request by the EU, she agreed to hold a session in one of the sub-groups to exchange views on Article 7.
CHINA emphasized that the purpose of the group was to accelerate and facilitate discussion on “numbers” and that conclusions should focus on improving the Protocol’s environmental integrity, and not “creating more loopholes.”
The US suggested considering co-sponsoring the expert meeting with relevant institutions to defray costs.
AUSTRALIA highlighted capacity building for REDD+ and lamented limited progress, saying in many cases only procedural conclusions were achieved where substantial conclusions are needed.
COLOMBIA emphasized the importance of reflecting all existing commitments under the Convention.
The US clarified that their proposed climate technology hub is designed to transfer technology and enhance the Convention’s implementation.
Referring to a suggestion by Sudan, for the African Group, SWITZERLAND expressed reluctance to determine the precise structure of the new agreement at this point.
AOSIS expressed doubt as to whether a redesign is needed and stressed that discussions on this issue should not prejudge AWG-KP outcomes.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted that the package must be balanced and include finance and loss and damage.
The US expressed concern with the proliferation of agenda items and new work programmes.
SAUDI ARABIA cautioned against a selective approach to the SAR findings before SBSTA\'s report.
ARGENTINA suggested the SBSTA work on technological barriers to low-carbon development.
AOSIS sought the establishment of a common set of principles across all the mechanisms, including the principles of environmental integrity and additionality.
Switzerland, supported by the US, asked that the recruitment processes conform to the rules and legal frameworks of host countries and institutions.
JAPAN and the US proposed a separate informal session to revise the guidelines and a joint contact group between the SBSTA and SBI was established for this purpose.
ARGENTINA said consultations must be carried out with all countries, and requested that her Minister of Foreign Affairs be included.
Spain, for the EU, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement, stressed the importance of the review process to improve national communications and urged that, pending resolution of the issue, national communications should continue to be developed periodically, appropriately and on time.
The EU and Umbrella Group supported the proposal to focus on linkages across several APA agenda items.
NORWAY, supported by the US, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, JAPAN, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and the EU, and opposed by INDIA, MALAYSIA, CHINA, called for the deletion of text initiating a process to aggregate GEF funding requirements for the UNFCCC, as well as a request to the Secretariat to produce a paper for SBI-18 outlining procedures for joint determination of necessary and available funding for UNFCCC implementation.
 The Credentials Committee was appointed on Monday and comprised the following six members: Dj c3 a9 Kouakou Bernard (C c3 b4te d’Ivoire); Ali Shareef (Maldives); Liliam Ballon (Peru); Alessandro Nardi (US); Arona Ngari (Cook Islands); and Dovil c4 97 Vaitkut c4 97 (Lithuania).
BARBADOS said a decision should be taken in relation to the GCF host, arrangements between the COP and the GCF, and initial capitalization to provide some degree of certainty.
Parties addressed how CGE workshops should be organized, with the EU, opposed by the G-77/China, suggesting that workshops could address all thematic areas in a combined approach, rather than addressing one theme only.
Mexico, for the EIG, underscored the importance of negotiations on Paris Agreement Article 6 (cooperative approaches) and that the Nairobi work programme (NWP) should be enhanced.
On UNFCCC Article 4.6 (flexibility for EITs), CROATIA stressed the importance of utilizing this Article.
The US suggested that an agreement define a new mechanism and areas for further modalities and procedures.
The fact that no substantive discussion was undertaken on the AOSIS protocol limited the debate on the adequacy of commitments.
 ARGENTINA supported employing annexes for additional policies and measures.
The G-77/CHINA and others highlighted the need for transparency in the process and adequate developing country expert participation in the technical workshops.
SINGAPORE and the BAHAMAS said diverse national circumstances should be taken into account.
The US noted this only applies to a protocol, while the Durban Platform allows for several possibilities regarding the instrument under preparation.
The EU then supported further discussions on the framework.
In the ensuing discussion, BRAZIL objected to proposals in which REDD projects simply offset further Annex I emissions.
SOUTH AFRICA said the suggestions for enhancing civil society participation should be reflected in a concrete proposal for further consideration.
 On Section M, NORWAY proposed that all subsidiary bodies under the Convention also serve the 2015 agreement, unless otherwise decided.
The US expressed willingness to work with parties to: establish criteria and procedures to ensure the environmental integrity of approaches; and discuss specifications to avoid double-counting through accurate and consistent recording and tracking of mitigation outcomes.
During the SBI closing plenary on 16 June, the meeting was suspended when Saudi Arabia and the US identified the need for further work on language on observer participation.
Yemen, speaking for the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China), said the text needed a more balanced and equitable treatment of many issues, however supported starting negotiations on the basis of the Chair’s text.
The AGBM should rely on the work of the IPCC, IEA, OECD and the Annex I Experts\' Group, but should commission new runs of existing models with new parameters, using top-down and bottom-up approaches.
UKRAINE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed this proposal, saying it would mean renegotiating the Protocol.
JAPAN highlighted “good political guidance” from Copenhagen and called for a comprehensive legal document, saying Chapter I of the Chair’s text may lead to such a document.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the US, the EU, the NETHERLANDS, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and ARGENTINA, suggested that the workshop be held in conjunction with the subsidiary body and AGBM meetings in February, and recommended a report from the meeting.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA supported maintaining the current composition, and SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA suggested consideration of the terms of reference was therefore not necessary and could be withdrawn.
The G-77/CHINA sought a reference to its proposal for a draft decision due to be discussed during the second half of SB-13.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted, inter alia: the importance of reaching a decision on response measures by COP 21; progress on adaptation as an urgent priority for developing countries; disappointment over lack of progress on capacity building; and the need to provide support to enable the full and effective participation of developing countries in meetings.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said a shared vision should provide a framework for cooperation among all parties, and include a long-term climate objective and ways and means to reach it.
NORWAY supported CANADA and AUSTRALIA and underlined the importance of cost effective implementation.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized the importance of a global regime that helps to foster national action, stressing that it is national action that will ultimately reduce emissions and prepare countries for climate impacts.
The UK, for the EU, wanted to establish a \t\tSBSTA process to follow up on the report, suggesting an expert meeting \t\tor workshop.
 In informal consultations, Co-Facilitator Bubu Jallow (The Gambia) invited country presentations on the implementation of the capacity-building framework for economies in transition (EIT), requesting reflections on: kind of support received; results; lessons learned; current and emerging gaps; and relevance to the Paris Agreement and other related provisions.
MEXICO highlighted that a long-term goal should include a quantitative goal and emission pathways.
SWITZERLAND also opposed a reference to Annex C in \t\tthe rules for composition of the Bureaus.
AOSIS noted the high costs of some adaptation options, particularly in coastal areas, and proposed creating an adaptation fund under the Convention on the basis of the “polluter pays” principle.
JAPAN outlined the new government’s climate policy objectives, including a mid-term emission reduction goal of 25% from 1990 levels by 2020, and enhanced financial and technological support.
Andrew Prag (OECD) highlighted three key messages: developing elements of a broadly-applicable accounting framework; accounting for transfers of market units; and accounting for emissions and removals from the land-use sector.
The EU encouraged Croatia to submit a consistent time series of emissions data using consistent methodologies for 1990-2001.
The EU tabled a new proposal, stating that any signatory or Party not included in Annex 1 nor acting under Article 10 may notify the depository that it has opted to adopt and implement some or all of the policies and measures and/or to participate in the coordination process referred to elsewhere in the protocol.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged the AWG-LCA to give full consideration to adaptation, finance, response measures, and technology transfer and shared vision.
Opposed \t\tby UGANDA, SWITZERLAND proposed conducting a compilation and synthesis \t\tof the first NAPAs.
The US said Article 7 needed to be elaborated in a legally binding way.
KUWAIT urged that IPCC studies be based on proposals by Parties, adhere to the Berlin Mandate and not refer to commitments of non-Annex I Parties.
On loss and damage, the G-77/CHINA urged moving beyond “recognition” of the issue and called for institutional arrangements.
AUSTRALIA said the success of the TEMs should be measured by examining national absorption of policies, and called for TEMs on enabling environments for implementing durable policies.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA welcomed the summary note as a starting effort to capture progress.
NEW ZEALAND supported dealing with the global goal early on, and proposed submissions by parties on measuring, reporting and verification (MRV) to further explore the terms.
 Andrew Rakestraw (US) and Xiang Gao (China) co-facilitated these informal consultations, presenting framing questions on: identifying the key elements of the modalities, procedures and guidelines (MPGs) for the transparency framework; informing the MPGs with experience from the existing measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) arrangements and reflecting flexibility for developing countries that need it; and organizing work in 2017 and 2018 to finalize the MPGs on time.
AUSTRALIA said achieving the 2°C target necessitates broader participation than the Kyoto Protocol.
  Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported streamlining discussions under the SBI and stressed the “critical importance” to the Copenhagen outcome of high quality and timely reporting of inventories, policies and measures.
AUSTRALIA opposed financial penalties and the issuing of cautions.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted, inter alia, that compliance with emission limitation or reduction commitments under the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol is paramount for building trust under the ADP negotiations.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU highlighted the potential role of the clean development mechanism (CDM) in technology transfer.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted observer engagement and agreement on the workshop to consider this issue.
Several parties, including JAPAN, TUVALU and Slovenia, for the EU, identified the need to address international aviation and maritime transport emissions.
The G-77/CHINA delivered a proposal that focused on: principles; elements; and cross-cutting issues relating to non-permanence.
Noting slow progress, the US proposed holding a conceptual discussion or seeking to identify elements for convergence.
  In the informal consultations, co-facilitated by Kelley Kizzier (EU) and Hugh Sealy (Maldives), parties discussed ideas for the work programme and draft conclusions for all three sub-items.
Switzerland called for commitments by all countries to provide resources for climate change policies and, with the US and the LDCs, for all countries in a position to do so to provide support to those who require it.
JAPAN, supported by NEW ZEALAND, suggested having clear outputs from each phase, such as a report from the technical dialogue.
The EU opposed reference to a specific article, noting that there is no hierarchy of Convention principles.
NORWAY said the new agreement should include a section on both mitigation and adaptation to reflect balance and the universal nature of commitments on each.
Canada, with the EU and G-77/China, said governments must respond to the observation needs of the UNFCCC.
JAPAN suggested stocktaking sessions held by the COP 22 Presidency.
KENYA noted that the subject has not been adequately considered and said a high level of transparency is needed.
The EU and CANADA questioned whether geographic distribution of CDM and other issues listed for consideration under the Article 9 review should be addressed by the AWG-KP, while TUVALU said the nature of the Article 9 review process is not yet clear.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), stressed the need to effectively address loss and damage, raise adaptation and mitigation ambition, and maintain environmental integrity in markets.
On paragraph 4 (nature of the MCP), AUSTRALIA raised the possibility of duplication by the MCP of other FCCC dispute settlement work.
Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (AILAC), commended the Co-Chairs for their e2 80 9cbold and effective e2 80 9d work and said AILAC would e2 80 9ccontinue to build bridges.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a process to take forward technical issues, saying a “very comprehensive” decision on this will be needed in Doha.
LIBERIA highlighted the link between financing and governance.
The EU, SAMOA and AUSTRALIA suggested that differences in opinion could be bridged by moving the debate away from conceptual approaches and toward a discussion of their consequences.
BANGLADESH called for a technology transfer and development board, development of regional centers, and mechanisms for North-South and South-South cooperation.
The US asked that the workshop report include a description of how options will affect Annex I party guidelines.
The AFRICAN GROUP proposed adding preambular language on Annex I parties refraining from using “hot air” AAUs.
  The G-77/CHINA stressed its proposals on financing and technology, and the need to organize the AWG-LCA’s work in a manner that allows for effective participation.
Noting the “painful reality of climate change impacts,” Liberia, for the LDCs, called for urgency in order to complete the AWG-KP’s work in 2010.
NIUE said that FCCC processes must be more flexible for small island States.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that it is the right of every Party to try to minimize the adverse impacts of an international binding agreement according to provisions given in the Convention.
SAUDI ARABIA described an integrated support and accreditation mechanism (SAM).
JAPAN questioned the necessity of preambular sections under each of the building blocks.
The EU identified the first alternative as the best departure point and stressed a shared vision as something that “guides” parties forward.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted the need for capacity building and financing, which should follow the guidelines for initial communications in Decision 10/CP.2.
AOSIS said it looked forward to extensive discussion on this matter during SBSTA-12.
INDIA stressed that piecemeal approaches are unsatisfactory and supported consideration of access to resources, institutional capacity building, and business community participation.
The G-77/CHINA suggested moving paragraph 87 on a process for periodic reviews, and paragraph 88 on an MRV of support mechanisms, to the objectives.
CHINA suggested that JI be subject to CDM requirements, and sought clarity on who should pay for this.
Guatemala, for AILAC, urged a common understanding of interlinkages guided by questions on: issues being addressed; necessity of input from other agenda items; where final decisions are made; and space for further inputs.
TUVALU noted that progress made so far does not reflect the seriousness of climate change and emphasized that real action is needed.
The EU called for recognizing that the deadline for the reporting of assigned amount units (AAUs) may be delayed if the CRF 3 Reporter software is not available in a timely manner or does not function properly.
On the Compliance Committee’s report, the EU supported extending the eligibility for funding related to the costs of travel and participation in Committee meetings to all members and alternate members, provided that such funding stays within the current budget.
The US said that the \t\tpotential for CCS to 93significantly ef bf bd reduce mitigation costs should be \t\tincluded in the text.
The US called for modeling of potential cartels and agreed reduction cut-backs by oil producers.
Stressing the need for a more organized text, the EU requested e2 80 9cclustering e2 80 9d the text over the next days with the assistance of the Secretariat.
LEBANON said the review had fulfilled its objective, and supported the recommendation that the GEF guidelines be more flexible.
CHINA stressed the need for equal attention to adaptation and mitigation.
• reiterates the request to developed country parties to continue to provide LDC parties with finance, technology and capacity building;
CHINA said developed countries must significantly increase their contributions to the fifth replenishment and reform the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to improve its capacity to facilitate implementation post-2012.
On shifting investment towards climate-friendly technologies, the US said that developed countries have to mobilize financial resources and developing countries have to strengthen their domestic enabling environments.
AOSIS said \t\tavoidance of climate change impacts on SIDS should be a benchmark of the \t\tpost-2012 agreement.
JORDAN said the draft does not focus on developed countries e2 80 99 ambition.
The EU, the US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA acknowledged developing countries’ need for support, and BRAZIL pointed to broad agreement on this issue.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized the need to provide guidance to constituted bodies.
BRAZIL called for an expedited process.
On the proposal to include option 6 in the merger, the EU expressed reservations.
With a view to shortening the text, SAUDI ARABIA called for the elimination of proposals not in conformity with the Convention.
The US said it was not in a position to urge ratification and suggested postponing the decision.
 Two developments at COP-2, the US statement supporting a legally binding agreement to reduce emissions and the Ministerial Declaration, drew several reactions from participants.
The US, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN raised concerns about the process in which the draft conclusions were reached.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported a transition towards a climate change framework including all major economies, taking into account countries’ respective capabilities.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS said he was not prepared to let Annex I Parties take credit for what nature is doing.
The EU also expressed concern over attempts to change the ADP’s mandate to negotiate a new, legally-binding instrument applicable to all by introducing the Bali Action Plan into the new mandate.
 In the contact group, the G-77/CHINA suggested areas for enhancing cooperation, including: facilitation of technical collaboration; cooperation in modeling and assessments taking into account developing countries’ priorities; partnerships with research organizations; and collaboration for a just transition.
The PHILIPPINES raised concerns over agreed full cost funding.
China, Norway, Sweden, the EU, Denmark, Canada, the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Chile and others urged approval of the figure.
The EU noted that information needs to come from both developing and developed countries, and said the issue should be addressed under SBI and SBSTA.
URUGUAY proposed adding “forest management, reforestation and any other forestry activity.” MEXICO suggested “forest management and forest conservation” and COSTA RICA proposed “natural forest regeneration,” and cautioned against allowing sink activities to disappear during the review discussed in Paragraph 3.
AUSTRALIA stated that the assessment of impacts is a national issue identified principles for response measures to: support mitigation efforts; be balanced; benefit from parties’ experiences and lessons learned; flow from national policies and measures; and focus on the poorest and most vulnerable countries.
 IRAN said imposing the policies and measures of Annex I Parties on non-Annex I Parties will not only transfer resources from developing to developed countries, but will upset the terms of trade.
The LDCs and AOSIS underscored the need to recognize the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS.
SWITZERLAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that a contact group be established using the Chair 92s consolidated text as a basis for discussion.
CANADA \t\tstressed differentiation and burden sharing.
On the paragraphs addressing provision of additional information to the ERT and confidentiality, the US, proposed moving the two paragraphs to the section on review of inventories, where they were more relevant.
BRAZIL cautioned that if accounting is voluntary, parties with net-draining will not account for wetlands while parties with rewetting will.
The US noted that a new capacity building mechanism is not necessary.
On Thursday morning, New Zealand reported that the contact group had discussed concerns related to overall representation of regions and that the Secretariat had reported that both suggestions from the US were consistent with the IPCC Rules of Procedure.
JAPAN said the cost of sanctions should be lower than the cost of withdrawal from the Protocol.
Responding to a question by PAKISTAN on the definition and achievement of Sweden e2 80 99s e2 80 9cno net emissions by 2050 e2 80 9d target, she explained a government commission appointed in 2013 will propose a definition and additional measures to reach the goal.
VENEZUELA stressed that no consensus existed on markets.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for, inter alia: strengthening international assessment and review for developed countries; a COP 17 decision on long-term finance and operationalizing the Green Climate Fund; and urgent adaptation action, including through the Adaptation Committee established in Cancun.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for joint implementation of disaster risk management and climate change adaptation, and stressed the need to strengthen national-level institutions.
ARGENTINA called for a substantive and binding Ministerial Declaration to support the SAR, one based on consensus that is a “convergence of opinion,” not necessarily unanimity.
SLOVENIA supported the Philippines on the TAPs and agreed with the US on the NGO intervention.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with SWITZERLAND, expressed concern with opening up sectoral issues as separate agenda items.
INDIA expressed concerns with the concept of sectoral approaches.
CANADA, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed concern that the Secretariat had combined both issues into a single document (FCCC/SBSTA/2008/INF.2).
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for clarity on how work in the group would be conducted in 2012, noting that many of the items on the proposed agenda had already been addressed.
Stressing the AWG’s legal mandate, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about suggestions to link the AWG with the new AWGLCA process.
INDONESIA emphasized the importance of making benefit assessments, not just cost assessments, of the Protocol.
COLOMBIA outlined post-2012 \t\tconsiderations and ARGENTINA proposed sectoral CDM projects.
Parties also agreed to consolidate two options under paragraph 109 on a collective goal/aim to transition to a world in which all investments are directed at resilient and low-emission actions, based on a proposal by Switzerland, for the EIG.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed moving forward into the implementation phase of the new MRV framework.
On operationalizing differentiation, the EU suggested self-differentiation through INDCs.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, requested a discussion on the legal nature of the work and a compilation of pledges of all developed country parties.
CANADA noted upcoming revised technology needs assessment (TNA) guidelines, and the US recommended no further TNAs be funded until the new guidelines become available.
On the timing of second national communications, the G-77/CHINA noted that there is a differentiated timetable under the FCCC for submission of national communications by Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
On engagement of experts, the AFRICAN GROUP called for reference to observer organizations.
The UK pointed out that Article 4.1(c) relates to the transfer of technology and Article 4.1 as a whole contains obligations of all Parties.
On income and budget performance in the biennium 1998-1999, the EU called for timely payment of contributions.
On Thursday, 4 December, Sudan, for the African Group, supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/China, Saudi Arabia, Maldives, India, South Africa, Ecuador, Zambia, Pakistan, Argentina and others, introduced a conference room paper (CRP) containing draft elements on climate finance under the ADP, requesting that it replace the Co-Chairs’ non-paper as the basis for discussion.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for work in Doha to focus on the outstanding issues, including managing the transition to the second commitment period from 1 January 2013, and ensuring that Kyoto Protocol infrastructure and mechanisms continue to deliver.
AOSIS underscored special focus on SIDS and LDCs, stressed that the current institutional arrangements are lacking and fragmented, and called for, inter alia, an adaptation body under the Convention and a new funding window.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called, inter alia, for establishing a SIDS work programme, reviewing NAPAs and supporting national institutional arrangements for access to financial resources.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: The contact group on non-Annex I communications discussed proposals submitted by the G-77/China and the EU on consideration of non-Annex I communications.
In informal consultations, parties discussed a draft text put forward by Costa Rica, for AILAC, based on informal informal consultations, which, inter alia, extended the Lima work programme on gender.
 \t\tNoting calls from some Annex I parties for developing countries to play \t\ttheir part, SOUTH AFRICA said his country would take serious mitigation \t\tactions that are measureable, reportable and verifiable, and said \t\tindustrialized countries must cut emissions by 25-40% by 2020 compared \t\twith 1990 levels.
SAUDI ARABIA said he would accept this on the condition that the issue of Protocol Articles 4.8 and 4.9 (adverse effects) be resolved at COP-4.
MAURITIUS inquired about a supervisory mechanism for this formula.
UKRAINE urged for the implementation of Convention Article 6(b)(ii) (development and implementation of education and training programmes) to be extended to countries with economies in transition.
Japan and the US asked questions about paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 concerning the voluntary nature of contributions.
TANZANIA, with MALAWI, called for rearrangement of the text to emphasize implementation of actions.
CHILE and CARICOM called for a definition of climate finance.
Stressing the central role of equity in the negotiations, INDIA reported on a workshop on climate change and equity in April 2012 in New Delhi, India.
Calling for a “COP of action,” Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern that financing appears be to be tapering, especially for the LDCs Fund (LDCF) and the Adaptation Fund.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for a better reflection of enhancing the Convention’s implementation and said that the scope was too prescriptive.
\t\t\tThe US proposed alternative wording on “positive incentives.” Japan, \t\t\tColombia and others stressed the social aspect of sustainable \t\t\tdevelopment but eventually agreed to delete the reference to \t\t\tstakeholders.
JAPAN noted that the review of the Fund could provide material for the AWG-LCA discussions.
QATAR supported a new agenda item on long-term cooperation \t\tunder the COP, while continuing the \t\tDialogue.
The US, supported by \t\tAustria, suggested that the IPCC Bureau should not have any formal \t\tdecision-making authority in approving observer organizations.
Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored that the process is party-driven and called for increased efforts to rebuild trust and foster a spirit of cooperation through frank and inclusive consultations.
NEW ZEALAND described Option C as very limited and noted his support for including all verifiable categories.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, VENEZUELA, KUWAIT, INDONESIA, and LIBYA, opposed the proposals to establish new groups or mechanisms to assist progress toward COP-6, stressing that the existing FCCC bodies and structures should be employed to this end.
CROATIA, supported by CG-11, stressed its special circumstances.
AOSIS and SOUTH AFRICA stressed the immediate need for financing.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that elements of future SBSTA work should exclude adaptive and mitigative capacity, but include spill-over effects.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, with Bolivia for the LMDCs, stressed the Convention’s principles and the importance of enabling all parties to take part in the negotiations related to the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
NORWAY noted that there was no section on baselines in the synthesis report.
INDIA emphasized capacity building \t\tthat have not replaced an existing source.
Some countries, including the US, questioned the availability of peer reviewed literature available for all of the elements of the outline, and several, including China, underlined the scientific credibility and objectivity of peer-reviewed literature.
 Several countries, including the EU, CHILE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the
BARBADOS, with AUSTRALIA, reported on a seminar on innovative approaches to loss and damage held in Bonn on Sunday, 5 June.
 CHINA said developing countries\' implementation will depend on Annex I Parties\' provision of resources and technology transfer, contrary to some comments that assistance depends on developing countries taking action.
The Russian Federation called for more information on bunker fuel emissions growth, while the EU highlighted that sufficient information exists to justify the consideration of bunker fuels.
On guidance on the mitigation section of Decision 1/CP.21, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Maldives, for AOSIS, opposed references to the land sector and called for guidance to ensure environmental integrity and prevent double counting under Agreement Article 6 (cooperative approaches).
In response to a request from Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, she clarified that a draft informal, non-negotiated note would be made available to parties.
The EU highlighted that policy choices made now, such as investment in fixed capital and infrastructure, have future impacts.
JAPAN highlighted the need to fundamentally review the CDM for the post-2012 period, as it currently takes place between a party with an emission target and a party without a target.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the need to enhance the frequency and content of national communications, and expressed disappointment with the lack of conclusion on the fourth review of the financial mechanism.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, endorsed the targets and timetables in the AOSIS protocol, which was introduced at COP-1.
These were facilitated by Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) and Jos e9 Romero (Switzerland) and focused on the results of the LEG 92s work and on further guidance to the LEG as well as the LDC Fund.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the role of private sector financing of mitigation technologies and public financing of adaptation technologies.
 \t\tThe REPUBLIC OF KOREA, with CHINA, proposed extending the \t\t \t\tDialogue for two more \t\tyears.
 On the review of adequacy of commitments, A/AC.237/WG.I/L.28, the EU considered the decision to be entirely insufficient stating that every successive IPCC report has demonstrated that the commitments in the Convention are inadequate.
The EU, with Monaco, for the EIG, indicated readiness to move forward on REDD+, markets and clarification of methodologies applicable to the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, regretting lack of agreement on these issues.
The EU supported considering impacts and results in climate finance.
AUSTRALIA cautioned that the potential to limit GHG emissions without seriously undermining economic growth is limited and ruled out flat emissions as neither environmentally nor cost effective.
The US said enhancing ambition through activities outside the process, such as bilateral initiatives, should be fostered, but not submitted for recognition or approval under the UNFCCC.
To avoid perverse incentives for parties to delay ratification, the EU suggested a clear deadline to finish preparations.
  In the contact group, NEW ZEALAND underscored mitigation technologies for agriculture.
On Monday, the G-77/CHINA suggested deleting text on recognizing that the submission of national communications would ensure that the COP has sufficient information to assess the UNFCCC 92s implementation in a timely manner.
A number of delegates, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the need for the body to have its own rules of procedure.
KENYA said that statements by Annex I Parties show their willingness to support new targets.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed that a draft legal text would be the best tool to assist parties in their deliberations in Katowice.
The G-77/CHINA reported that it had just completed deliberations on the decision portion of the CDM text, and urged that the results of these deliberations be reflected in the revised text.
JAPAN and the EU stressed the need to maintain the momentum of Kyoto, and with FINLAND, called for the creation of a clear and efficient work plan giving priority to developing country concerns.
 The introduction of the AOSIS protocol and the German proposal have significant implications not only for the negotiations but also for the future implementation of the Convention.
In preliminary comments, the G-77/CHINA addressed concerns that the text, inter alia, had not incorporated elements regarding the predictability, and new and additional nature of the funding, and had excluded references to technology transfer as it relates to adaptation.
The EU outlined possible elements of a Copenhagen agreement on adaptation, which would provide for the scaling up of financial resources and investment for adaptation, integration of adaptation into national planning, and support for vulnerable countries to formulate adaptation plans and programmes.
IRAN highlighted the need for confidence-building between developed and developing countries through concrete practical cooperation.
AOSIS noted the need to modify IPCC guidelines for small island developing States (SIDS) because they are not always applicable to their special circumstances.
On proceedings of the compliance committee, the G-77/CHINA said procedures relating to decision-making, participation, conflict of interest and information sources should be equally applicable to both branches.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with the EU, said that progress on draft negotiating texts is promising.
CHINA emphasized the need for developed countries to provide financial and intellectual support to implement technology needs assessments in developing countries.
On Establishment, Structure and Functions, the US, with AUSTRALIA, said the text should emphasize the two-branch structure.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, the ARAB GROUP and others, supported using the text as a basis for further work, with some noting that it reflected a wide range of views.
SWITZERLAND stressed inclusion of the LULUCF principles of decision 16/CMP.1.
The draft report (IPCC-XXXI/Doc.3) was approved by delegates with one amendment from the UK to reflect his country’s proposal for a special report on climate change impacts on marine ecosystems, including ocean acidification.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, lamented that many issues were still in their “conceptual” stages and stressed greater urgency.
The G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and THAILAND opposed the amendments.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stated preference for an omnibus decision in 2018.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, regretted that, while the Paris Agreement has entered into force, the Doha Amendment has not and underscored this “unfinished business” must be urgently addressed.
SAUDI ARABIA reminded Parties that they should consider the progress on all subjects as a package.
IRAN spoke against creating a new institution, stressed its budgetary implications and noted the problem that additional meetings pose for developing countries.
EGYPT proposed co-benefits e2 80 9cin the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and BOLIVIA raised points of order, requesting more time to reflect on the new text before moving into streamlining.
BANGLADESH \t\tsaid modalities and procedures should be compatible with existing \t\tcapacity and expertise in developing countries.
The US suggested continuing the current format of roundtables and convening workshops on technical issues that may come up, and supported reflecting on issues and exploring workable options before developing text.
SWITZERLAND emphasized its commitment to continue the \t\tProtocol beyond 2012, while stressing the need to expand the \t\tmultilateral framework and for emerging countries to participate.
The EU cautioned against lengthy debates centering on the interpretation of the Convention.
NEW ZEALAND supported a five-year commitment period to allow for consideration of the most recent science.
On reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ITALY, for the EU, said developed countries must make a greater effort and developing countries must also take steps towards this end.
BANGLADESH proposed stronger reference to energy \t\tefficiency.
On Tuesday, 10 November, draft work programmes were submitted by AUSTRALIA (on behalf of CANADA, ICELAND, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the US), JAPAN, SWITZERLAND and the Co-Chairs.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged extension and expansion of the mandate of the LDC Expert Group (LEG), lamented the co-financing requirement for the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs) and called for implementation of all elements of the LDC work programme.
NORWAY, GUYANA and COLOMBIA suggested terminology on “emissions displacement” rather than “leakage.” AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to consider the implementation of REDD-plus and suggested including a section on an operational framework.
The EU presented on current Annex I pledges in relation to an aggregate 30% emission reduction target.
The EU said all ERTs reports would be forwarded to the compliance body.
With regard to ex ante assessment of commitments, SAUDI ARABIA said it should only be explored for developed countries and stressed that actions by developing countries are voluntary.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP noted that all parties to the Convention have to undertake actions and drew attention to South Korea’s proposal to establish a registry of nationally appropriate mitigation actions.
AOSIS, opposed by Norway, Poland and Canada, proposed removing reference to these being guidelines.
CHILE expressed dismay that discussions appeared to be moving backward rather than forward.
The US suggested including a section after the title outlining common actions and strategies for all parties, including monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) of these actions and strategies.
AUSTRALIA elaborated on its proposal for a technology advisory panel, which would provide advice on technical aspects, policy and financing.
SWITZERLAND underscored that parties are moving toward full carbon accounting.
Chair Stoycheva suggested a contact group be convened to address this issue, including the LDC Fund.
Indonesia, Norway, Australia, the EU and others also supported that the COP facilitate implementation of the Copenhagen Accord under Convention Article 7.2(c).
AOSIS, LDCs, AILAC, EU, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Norway, China and others recognized the need for adaptation support in particularly vulnerable countries.
The EU argued that it would be difficult to establish standardized baselines without discount factors but opposed multiplication factors.
The EU reiterated its commitment to reaching the collective finance goals.
He emphasized the conclusion that it will be challenging but possible to mobilize US$100 billion annually for climate action in developing countries by 2020 and that a combination of different sources will be necessary.
France, for the European Union (EU), said the fight against climate change could not wait for a recovery from the economic recession and stressed that the EU’s goals are clear even if internal debate is taking place on legislation to implement the target of a 20% reduction by 2020.
The US said that it had decided not to propose several amendments in light of the balanced draft conclusions, but was reconsidering the decision because of the proposals from the G-77 and AOSIS.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, noted that significant progress on LULUCF may facilitate progress on Annex I emission reductions and that issues on the flexibility mechanisms and methodologies, in turn, could be unlocked by movement in Annex I emission reductions.
 CHINA said discussion should be on substantive issues, not the structure of a legal instrument, and that China is flexible on the form of instrument.
AOSIS called for the BAP e2 80 99s fulfillment.
SWITZERLAND underscored the need to address governance and leave some issues for post-Copenhagen negotiations.
NEW ZEALAND urged an integrated domestic and international trading system, while SAMOA noted that such a system was not mentioned in Protocol Article 17 (Emissions Trading), and highlighted the need to discuss it in the context of the nature and scope of emissions trading.
The US said that the Secretariat"s report focused too much on CO2, suggesting that Parties needed to focus on all gases.
AILAC suggested establishing a new forum for parties to voluntarily share information on NAMA support and, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, a new mechanism to catalyze action on mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA suggested adding the objective of ensuring that the compliance body has the information necessary to carry out its functions.
JAPAN emphasized the central role of innovative technologies.
On the time frame, the US suggested, and the Panel agreed, to seven weeks instead of the six weeks proposed for government comments.
On a general note, SAUDI ARABIA reiterated its reservation on aiming for a draft negotiating text by SB-12, as this was premature.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need for a quantified path to stabilization at no more than 450 ppm and underlined co-dependence with AWG-KP.
The EU said REDD+ emission reductions results should be assessed against independent review.
TUVALU called for a universal definition of forest, cautioning against too much flexibility.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, warned against transferring issues from the AWG-LCA to the SBs and said specific issues mandated for consideration by the SBI in Decision 1/CP.16 must feed into a balanced outcome from the AWG-LCA.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, pointed out that, inter alia, their request for response measures as a major heading was not respected.
On the section on the context for the AR5 (Chapters 1 and 2), Canada, the UK and the US underlined the importance of addressing vulnerability to climate change, with the US noting that discussions on vulnerabilities in sectoral chapters should be linked to those in a separate chapter on key vulnerabilities.
AUSTRALIA suggested that the UNFCCC should play a facilitative role and that the focus should be on capacity building, enabling environments and technology needs.
BENIN said that guidelines should be prepared as soon as possible, adding that workshops could be held to facilitate the preparation of these guidelines.
CANADA said reference to "competitiveness" should be changed to "access to emissions trading."
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION reminded delegates that within 15 years, emissions from non-Annex I countries would exceed those of Annex I countries.
CANADA said expertise in responding to questions already exists in the private sector and research centers.
Brazil said ministerials should be held “sparingly,” when concrete policies can be proposed to them, and, with AOSIS and the EU, agreed to work on improving TEMs’ output.
CHINA said rules for the second commitment period should be compatible with existing rules.
INDIA underscored that the NWP is not an end in itself, but a means to support and promote adaptation and vulnerability reduction in developing countries.
On the frequency of the compliance body 92s meetings, AOSIS and SOUTH AFRICA said it would depend on the amount of work it had before it and that meetings should be held together with other meetings under the FCCC.
INDIA, INDONESIA, COSTA RICA and others suggested including \t\tconservation, while Gabon, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, proposed a \t\tstabilization fund to sustain current efforts.
MALAYSIA called for the establishment of long-term climate monitoring stations in developing countries.
The PHILIPPINES highlighted the need to focus on gaps in the Convention’s implementation.
SBSTA accepted the text, and the Chair said the record would note the US objection.
BULGARIA, for CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, and supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CHINA and KAZAKHSTAN, for the GROUP OF NINE 96 an alliance of Central Asian and Trans-Caucasian countries, and Moldova 96 underlined that economies in transition are, like developing countries, in need of financial aid from the GEF for the purpose of capacity building, technology transfer and responding to adverse effects, and requested the removal of the brackets around text on their needs.
PAKISTAN inquired on the issue of vulnerability in the adaptation text, to which Co-Facilitator Kolly noted that this topic has not been discussed yet and might go to a higher level of discussion.
On the Committee’s annual report and its request to the COP/MOP concerning the legal status of Committee members, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU identified the discussions under the SBI on privileges and immunities as the best way to address this issue and proposed reflecting this in the COP/MOP decision.
MALAYSIA and PAKISTAN suggested analyzing the implications of Annex I countries’ different emissions targets for non-Annex I parties.
In closing statements, the EU welcomed advances on technology transfer, research and systematic observation, and Annex I UNFCCC reporting guidelines, as well as the outcomes on standardized baselines and CCS under the CDM, while several parties highlighted water issues, and Ecuador proposed a SBSTA programme of work on water.
TUVALU \t\t\tunderscored the need to ensure emissions reductions, and urged \t\t\tcaution on potential perverse feedbacks and reference to other \t\t\tinstitutions.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and the EU promoted early action while the US supported a longer time-horizon.
JAPAN suggested differentiating among countries for provision of financial and technological support and, with AUSTRALIA, supported focusing on the existing financial architecture.
The US, for the Umbrella Group, underlined that the momentum behind the Paris Agreement “cannot and will not be stopped,” highlighting responding markets and financial flows because this “makes sense for sustainable economic development” and stressing that the private sector, non-state parties, civil society and indigenous peoples “all will drive the shift to solutions.”
TUVALU highlighted that revision of the CDM is linked to the AWG-LCA’s work on developing country mitigation.
 MALAYSIA noted there is an enormous amount of information available in many centers and in many forms and said any future compilation on technology transfer should provide sufficient information to explain how the projects or activities fully meet the objective of the Convention.
CANADA proposed focusing on \t\t 93manageable 94 outcomes.
IRAN supported concrete action to, inter alia: enhance research and development related to energy efficiency, the use of natural gas, and advanced fossil fuel technologies; diversify the economies of fossil fuel producing developing countries through facilitating access to markets and preferential treatment; transfer technology across a number of sectors; and support training programmes and capacity building.
Ant c3 b3nio Guterres, UN Secretary-General, underlined that SIDS are at the frontlines of climate change and that they must be the “voice of us all.” With respect to big infrastructure projects he said, “if they are not green they should not be given the green light,” and urged donor nations to bring the GCF fully to life.
The US highlighted examples of donor efforts to coordinate support.
The US, SWITZERLAND, the EU, AOSIS, CHINA and NORWAY suggested concluding this item at the Bonn session.
 In the spin-off group on numbers, delegates discussed a submission by the EU to the Chair’s negotiating text (FCCC/KP/AWG/2011/CRP.2/Rev.1).
CANADA, supported by the US, said that it would be premature to undertake major revisions to the guidelines.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to focus on national action in Annex I parties and the G-77/CHINA said quantified targets should not be replaced.
The EU underlined the value of non-Annex I Parties participating in workshops on P&amp;Ms, argued that emissions inventories alone are not comprehensive enough to assess demonstrable progress in 2005, and suggested a COP-7 decision on the information needed in this regard.
The EU underscored the role of the CGE in more frequent reporting by non-Annex I countries, as mandated by Decision 1/CP.16.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, highlighted that the CDM cannot continue unless the Kyoto Protocol continues and said a signal regarding the continuation of the CDM requires the establishment of a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period.
The US noted that issues of permanence will be addressed in Annex I countries because of inventory requirements.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA asked about the data sources used.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that effective participation of all developing countries would be ensured.
The EU \t\tand ARGENTINA said adaptation should be included in sustainable \t\tdevelopment plans.
This was supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, as well as Barbados, Tuvalu, Costa Rica, Belize, Bahamas, Senegal, Kenya, Solomon Islands, Cook Islands, Palau and the Dominican Republic.
SINGAPORE urged parties to agree on information requirements for INDCs and on elements of a draft negotiating text in Lima, while resolving issues of differentiation in, and scope and comprehensiveness of, the new agreement in Paris.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, the EU and CANADA, emphasized that the aggregate range should be discussed in cooperation with the AWG-LCA.
JAPAN reported on the Tenth Informal Meeting on Further Actions against Climate Change, co-chaired by Brazil and Japan in Tokyo, Japan, in March 2012, where expected outcomes from Doha were among the issues discussed.
 The US comments focused on the nature of quantitative commitments.
COLOMBIA said it is “embarrassing” to present current language on mitigation of developed countries as a “middle ground” outcome and stressed the need to make the text shorter, more concrete and ambitious.
The EU suggested including an invitation to parties to provide funding for the regional workshops yet to be held.
SAINT LUCIA expressed concern with the absence of reference to the 1.5°C goal and legally-binding agreement under the AWG-LCA.
The EU said the compliance mechanism is functioning effectively; stressed difficulties regarding entry into force of amendments; and said a compliance amendment should be considered in the context of wider post-2012 discussions.
The US nominated Ko Barrett from the floor, highlighting Barrett’s experience with scientific organizations and her service in the developing world.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for a focused group to address finance.
 INDONESIA: Sarwono Kusumaatmadja, Minister of the Environment, noted his country’s efforts to manage GHG emissions, enhance its carbon sink capacity through improved agricultural and land use practices and incorporate precautionary measures into its coastal zone management plan.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Estonia, and the US opposed singling out a specific fossil fuel.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA suggested using the procedure followed by the other issues group, in which those who do not wish to engage in discussion on certain issues refrain, while those wishing to discuss their proposals do.
AUSTRALIA called for separate development of guidelines for national communications inventory data.
LIBYA \t\thighlighted its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Reporting back from the Wednesday morning spin-off on scaling-up finance, ECUADOR highlighted, inter alia: difficulties in discussing scaling up without clarity on actions to be financed; imbalance between INDC actions and support; and differentiation among parties.
The US noted many areas of convergence, for example on a facilitative role for the technology mechanism.
VENEZUELA cautioned against putting fossil fuels on the “accused” bench.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, highlighted reservations made to the ICAO resolution.
KAZAKHSTAN highlighted mitigation actions and measures, including legislation, renewable energy feed-in tariffs, an emissions trading system and an energy service company framework.
Welcoming a “balanced and solid result” that makes the Paris Agreement operational, the EU highlighted the GST as the “central innovation” of the Paris Agreement.
The US, with AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, suggested addressing how discussions on capacity building differ from discussions on support in other contact groups under the AWG-LCA.
CANADA proposed including existing institutions.
On a proposal by the G-77/China to delete Part III on the review of information on AA, the US said the guidelines should provide for review of information related to AA.
JAPAN, CANADA, NORWAY and others identified the FSV as being instructive of capacity gaps and challenges.
The NETHERLANDS noted the need for national communications from more non-Annex I countries, and disagreed with the concept of a fund for compensation.
On institutional arrangements, the LDCs proposed establishing: a clearinghouse to help those lacking capacity access the best adaptation technologies; a roster of international adaptation experts; and, with TIMOR LESTE, regional adaptation centers.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated its core positions, including: a prompt start to the CDM; the need for capacity building, particularly within LDCs and SIDS; the issues of supplementarity, baselines, additonality, monitoring, verification, and equity; adaptation funding; equal treatment of the CDM; and the right of the host developing country to be the sole judge of a project ef bf bds contribution to sustainable development.
SINGAPORE noted that the list of types of actions for the registry is insufficient, and SAUDI ARABIA pointed out that his country’s proposal on a supporting and accrediting mechanism is not reflected adequately.
G-77/CHINA underlined the need to consider the high adjustment costs faced by developing countries and barriers presented by policies implemented by developed countries affecting economic diversification.
The AFRICAN GROUP proposed an African regional adaptation implementation initiative, which would include: a network of African centers of excellence; a three-year pilot phase of adaptation activities, implemented cooperatively; and a pilot project of stand-alone adaptation activities.
On  , Senegal and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported retaining this option and highlighted the need to improve access to the CDM.
The EU also indicated that decisions on provision of finance have been taken in Durban and Cancun.
She also noted the emerging consensus that a core element of the Copenhagen accord should be mobilization of US$10 billion a year by 2012 to support adaptation and mitigation in developing countries.
The EU, with CANADA, stressed that the Protocol calls for Annex I countries to “strive” to minimize impacts, that the objective was to figure out how best to “strive” through the collection and processing of information, and that such information collection would require efforts by both developed and developing countries.
  During informal consultations in the afternoon, discussions focused on the report by the LDC Expert Group (LEG) (FCCC/SBI/2010/5).
The G-77/CHINA said it would present a new version of the text on Monday.
NORWAY expressed “strong support” for a legally-binding outcome, called for sufficient time to discuss it and supported Grenada’s proposal.
ARMENIA expressed caution about the adoption of a protocol including firm base years for GHG reductions, saying countries should not be completely prevented from developing.
 AUSTRALIA: Robert Hill, Minister of the Environment, voiced his commitment to fulfilling his obligations under the FCCC and acknowledged the importance of the SAR.
GERMANY noted the Adaptation Fund e2 80 99s successful on-the-ground impacts.
BRAZIL, with JAMAICA, underscored the role of regional climate change models.
The G-77/CHINA proposed modifications based on its draft decision paper.
NEW ZEALAND supported automaticity since it would ensure predictability for the effective functioning of the market.
Maldives, for AOSIS, noted deep concern over the slow pace of progress thus far and underscored that his group “stands ready to do everything for this COP to be a success.”
Ecuador, for ALBA, highlighted that the future of the Durban Platform is intertwined with the adoption in Doha of ambitious legally-binding commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US said there should be two functions, one related to allocation and the other to substance.
 ESTONIA supported the EU structure as the basis for negotiations.
NEW ZEALAND drew attention to displacement and associated environmental risks from other types of CDM activities.
SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA stressed the inclusion of developing country scientists, and literature in languages other than English.
The EU highlighted, inter alia, impact assessments and stakeholder consultations underlying its climate legislation.
CANADA, with the US and EU, emphasized support for the GEF.
  This agenda item covers the fourth review of the financial mechanism, report of the GEF to the COP and guidance to the GEF, and the LDC Fund (FCCC/CP/2008/2 and FCCC/SBI/2008/MISC.8).
The EU urged progress on: ensuring dynamism in the 2015 agreement through regular review of ambition; clarifying how the agreement will deliver transparency and accountability with respect to mitigation; delivering climate resilience through adaptation and climate finance; and enhancing mitigation before 2020.
CANADA underscored the importance of national circumstances and highlighted it’s development of renewable energy sources.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, requested confirmation that the chairs of the open-ended drafting groups would be the chairs and facilitators who had already been working on these issues under the AWG.
The US expressed support for a high level of environmental integrity and transparent and vigorous thresholds.
NEW ZEALAND described e2 80 9cright e2 80 9d policies and enabling environments as a prerequisite for more effective flows of climate finance.
CHINA underscored Annex I parties’ unsatisfactory performance in achieving their targets under the Kyoto Protocol, stating that the reduction in their emissions has been caused by the economic recession rather than innovations in sectors, such as transport and building.
He invited Ministers Edna Molewa (South Africa) and Edward Davey (UK) to conduct ministerial outreach on long-term finance and the GCF.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION said progress in the AWG-LCA track is not sufficient and highlighted that in the absence of certainty on a global agreement under the Convention, they would be unlikely to support a second commitment period.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, indicated that countries that have developed unsustainably in the past have a primary responsibility to develop a global low-carbon economy and society.
The G-77/CHINA said the draft APA conclusions should remain as they are, and proposed “putting them aside.” He suggested consultations on where and how to address the African Group’s proposal.
FRANCE \t\tand GERMANY questioned whether work on aerosols is sufficiently advanced \t\tto give rise to work on inventories.
The G-77/CHINA said discussions on sequestration should be avoided until ongoing studies by SBSTA and IPCC are concluded.
PANAMA, supported by CHINA and INDIA, proposed an expert group on vulnerability, impacts and adaptation.
NGOs and some delegations suggested that the AOSIS target could provide the substance to fill in the blanks of the EU proposal, but the US and others\' suggestions seemed to point in other directions.
The US highlighted the urgency of addressing climate change, identified the need to be guided by science and pragmatism, and stressed links between sustainable development and the transformation to a low carbon economy.
CANADA expressed interest in supporting the workshops.
The US, supported by Switzerland, urged caution regarding the perception of IPCC products being sponsored by particular organizations.
In the afternoon, the EU, on behalf of the small group, reported that no consensus on the issues had been reached.
The G-77/CHINA said the process of submissions could delay the organization of the workshop, noting that decision 5/CP.7 calls for it to be held prior to COP-9.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored efforts undertaken since 2007 to fulfill the AWG-LCA’s mandate and build confidence among parties, including the establishment of transparency requirements for all parties, the Adaptation Framework and the Green Climate Fund (GCF).
The US requested more detail on the Secretariat budget and expressed concern over the proposed apportionment between UNFCCC and Protocol activities.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted Article 4.7 (technology transfer), suggesting a meeting on technology adaptation.
Supported by BOLIVIA, she requested adding a footnote to the agenda to indicate that: “the implementation of Decision 1/CP.17 should be examined on the basis of its compliance with international law, in accordance with the principle of pacta sunt servanda and, in particular, with the exception on non-performance related to the full respect and compliance with the UNFCCC and its Kyoto Protocol, for the parties that are parties of those instruments.”
He welcomed the IPCC AR5 SYR and the outcome of the initial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund (GCF), totaling US$9.7 billion.
Sudan, for the African Group, supported by China and Chile, and opposed by the US, preferred restating the extent to which developing countries’ implementation depends on the level of support.
JAPAN \t\tsaid the second commitment period should be based on a thorough \t\tscientific analysis and not a political exercise.
The US, EU, Australia and Russian Federation suggested deciding on the exact date for submitting the sixth national communication at a later stage, pending the outcome of AWG-LCA discussions.
Participants suggested that an \t\tadditional workshop for SIDS on technology for vulnerability and \t\tadaptation would be helpful.
The US, UK and CHINA suggested that the group consider timing issues as well.
PAKISTAN reflected on how the CBDR principle and the consideration of national circumstances differ in practice.
The EU suggested five-year stocktaking cycles.
CHINA presented modeling results, concluding that Annex I parties’ “overuse of the carbon space” before 2020 caused the mitigation gap.
INDIA, with Panama, for the CfRN, called for the new agreement to be anchored in the Convention and to include all its principles.
AUSTRALIA said the review should include all parties and over-achievement should not be penalized in the carry-over limitations.
  The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a session to discuss ambition, noting that the numbers on the table are “very low.” Chair Diouf stated that this proposal could be discussed in the contact group on item 3 (consideration of further commitments of Annex I parties under the AWG-KP).
The US, Switzerland and Australia stated that this agenda item is limited to mitigation.
On capacity building needs, the G77/CHINA referred to its draft decision calling on the COP to, inter alia: conduct capacity building activities; provide the necessary financial and technical support to strengthen national focal points; promote climate-related research and studies; and promote capacity building of national institutions and expertise.
He supported the AOSIS statement and the need for strengthening Annex I Parties commitments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted outstanding issues, including MRV for REDD+, national forest monitoring systems, and agriculture.
Al Gore, former US Vice President, said that in Lima and Paris e2 80 9cwe are designing the future of human kind.
SWITZERLAND asked for an analysis on the role of JI beyond 2020, and synergies with other market mechanisms.
The US called for emphasis on effectiveness of climate finance.
ARGENTINA said that emissions reductions should be the priority objective of the negotiations and that the Umbrella Group 92s draft proposal was confusion on priorities.
The EU also drew attention to “radical improvements” on energy efficiency, and Belgium suggested text to indicate that a system transition in electricity generation may be underway.
Several speakers, including the G-77/China, EU and the Central Group 11 (CG-11, a group of 11 central and eastern European countries), supported entry into force of the Protocol in time for the WSSD.
On a chapeau paragraph stating \t\t\tthat many impacts can be reduced or delayed with mitigation, the UK \t\t\tsuggested replacing mitigation 93particularly over the mid- and \t\t\tlong-term 94 with 93timely and appropriate mitigation.
BRAZIL suggested a TEM bringing together expertise from “the financial and investment worlds.” INDIA called specific attention to the cost of technology, finance available, and countries’ capacity to absorb them.
BURUNDI underscored its vulnerability to climate change impacts and low adaptive capacity, and highlighted the importance of the Fund.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, noted that the current text might introduce conditionalities and standards, while on framing of the work he stressed the importance of emphasizing minimizing the negative impacts of potential consequences for developing countries.
CHINA proposed a project-based mechanism comparable to the CDM that would: promote cost-effectiveness in emission reductions; be subject to participation eligibility requirements for developed countries; be supplementary to domestic efforts; avoid double counting; and not introduce emission reduction commitments for developing countries.
SWITZERLAND drew attention to the process of appointment in the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, suggesting that model, in which parties define criteria, could be adopted.
He praised the US, noting it had shown leadership and signaled "a good prospect for change in the dynamics of the COP."
Many countries, including SOUTH AFRICA, KUWAIT, NIGERIA, SENEGAL, NAMIBIA, PERU, Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and others, expressed willingness to use the Chair’s text as the basis of work.
NEW ZEALAND proposed an appeal system.
CANADA said policies and measures should reinforce a positive relationship between the economy and the environment.
AOSIS suggested TEMs on transport, and local and indigenous peoples e2 80 99 knowledge.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern over the impacts of response measures will have, and supported a compensation fund to assist countries whose economies would be affected by the implementation of response measures.
MARSHALL ISLANDS emphasized the need for common verification.
JAPAN stated that emissions from bunker fuels should continue to be addressed by ICAO and IMO.
COSTA RICA, for several Central American countries, stated that adaptation should not focus only on infrastructure, and emphasized ecosystem-based adaptation and traditional knowledge.
The US \t\tproposed stocktaking as an initial action.
CHINA said it would not undertake commitments until it achieves a 93medium development level.
SAUDI ARABIA stated that parties lacked a mandate to adopt or undertake activities until a decision at COP 18.
Views diverged on differentiation, with JAPAN advocating encouraging e2 80 9call parties in a position to do so e2 80 9d to provide finance.
CHINA, citing numerous articles of the FCCC, said that technology transfer was critical in meeting the Convention\'s objectives.
NEW ZEALAND said the draft is a useful first step, despite being too lengthy.
The US, EU and CANADA objected, as they had not yet seen the document.
JAPAN supported further consultation on difficult issues, including mechanisms and institutions.
The LDCs and the EU supported convening a high-level forum before Doha, with the EU suggesting a focus on such issues as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), bunker fuels, REDD+, fossil fuel subsidies and private-sector finance.
While several textual inputs were provided, BRAZIL, the US and others cautioned against extensive additions of text in the preambular paragraphs and called for focusing on substance.
PERU noted the need for enhanced knowledge, capacity building for planning and implementing, climate resilience and risk management.
Parties also suggested that various issues should be considered when undertaking the review, such as: parties’ national circumstances and specificities; the goal of limiting temperature increase to specific levels; the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities; the historical responsibility of Annex I parties; developing countries’ need for economic and social development and poverty eradication; and the special circumstances of some groups of countries such as SIDS, LDCs and countries that depend on the production and consumption of fossil fuels.
The G-77/CHINA noted that the Protocol’s targets were based on pledges, which was not the solution preferred by all countries, and stressed the need for adequate mid- and long-term mitigation by developed countries, saying “this goes far beyond countries putting forward national numbers.” He stressed that: mitigation under sub-paragraph 1(b)(i) must take the same form of quantitative targets as under the Protocol; rules on MRV for all developed countries should be the same as in Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8; and information on compliance is an important part of comparability.
The US clarified their pledge of reducing emissions by 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and provided an overview of domestic emission reduction initiatives, highlighting the transport sector.
The EU said COP-7 had marked an important milestone in making the Kyoto process irreversible.
The US noted that there should be no hierarchy among the agreement and decisions.
NORWAY expressed satisfaction with “mature” elements such as REDD+, technology and finance in the Chair’s paper and called for more progress on mitigation and associated MRV.
In addition, noting that Protocol Article 4 foresees the possibility of parties fulfilling their commitments jointly, the EU explained that the commitment inscribed in Protocol Annex B for the EU, Croatia and Iceland for the second commitment period is based on the understanding that this commitment will be fulfilled jointly.
NORWAY said raising ambition requires clarity on emission reduction accounting to understand what and how much countries are doing, noting that it is easy to do this for parties with commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
URUGUAY stressed this is the only effective fund for adaptation finance and should not be overshadowed by new mechanisms.
Nepal, for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), called for ADP 2-6 to organize elements of a post-2015 agreement.
NEW ZEALAND suggested criteria to focus on: specific policies; cost effectiveness and efficacy; producing significant abatement at least cost; durability with flexibility to adapt to new information on the timing and magnitude of climate change; transparency in environmental and economic effects; and effectiveness across national circumstances.
CHINA said there was no consensus on holding further meetings of the contact group on legal matters in Tianjin.
COLOMBIA stated that developed countries suffer from the “disease of forgetting”.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (UAE) proposed recognizing actions by e2 80 9cearly movers.
e2 80 9d The US and Germany objected to this, noting it was still too technical.
The PHILIPPINES, coordinator of G-77/China on this issue, recalled that her group had entered these negotiations with a solid position, but had moved from it to accommodate the process.
 On “legal character” of QELROs, the EU reiterated its support for QELROs for significant overall reductions and noted that P&amp;Ms should also be legally binding.
SAUDI ARABIA, with VENEZUELA and BRAZIL, stressed the need to retain text stating, inter alia, that developed countries shall not resort to unilateral measures, including countervailing border measures on developing country imports.
The US, the EU and others supported exploring the idea of sectoral approaches.
AUSTRALIA suggested adding that if an Article 4 (joint fulfillment) Party becomes ineligible to use the mechanisms, all other members of the agreement would lose access to the mechanisms.
The EU proposed that action be “coordinated” rather than “common or harmonized”.
G77/CHINA replied that expanding the flexible \t\tmechanisms was not within the \t\tAWG ef bf bds mandate.
Parties also discussed informally a proposal from the EU to compile information on pledges for mid-term emission reductions by all Annex I countries, similar to the complication of Protocol parties’ pledges under the AWG-KP.
The EU said all items should be considered as “one comprehensive package” and cautioned against “isolating” certain items.
France, supported by the US, preferred the second bracketed option, which listed specific elements of national programmes subject to mitigation and adaption measures, but suggested moving it to paragraph 2 on programme priorities.
Cautioning against bias towards mitigation actions, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested adding text on MRV of Annex I parties e2 80 99 support to developing countries for the achievement of their INDCs.
CROATIA, for BULGARIA and ROMANIA, said that they would cooperate in a new group called the Central Group.
 SAUDI ARABIA said that because the rules are only applied nothing is binding and regional group suggestions are for the whole plenary to decide.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS suggested reflecting convergences and, with COLOMBIA, starting work towards a decision text.
 There was support for both the draft protocols submitted by the EU and AOSIS.
Sinks/LULUCF: AUSTRALIA and others said the inclusion of sinks could lower the cost of abatement action and thereby contribute to a better outcome.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS called for substantive discussion.
THAILAND noted that each core element must be given equal weight and highlighted mid- and long-term technological and financial support.
Facilitator Macey said informal consultations will be held on the EU’s suggestion for a technical paper.
BRAZIL recalled that the proposal contained a clean development fund that has been replaced by the Kyoto Protocol\'s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).
JAPAN highlighted the recent increase of its target to a 25% reduction from 1990 levels by 2020 and said it would not be in a position to increase that level of ambition.
The US suggested including: overview of a country’s decision-making process, information on priorities and actions; adaptation activities for the near future; and needs for support.
SOUTH AFRICA proposed including language on maintaining the environmental integrity of the Protocol and its contribution to sustainable development.
SENEGAL and others highlighted the importance of the issue.
NIGERIA underscored the need to continue the Kyoto Protocol and NICARAGUA said this is essential to achieve balance.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and KUWAIT opposed the EU’s preference to “approve and adopt” the Revised Guidelines.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the AWG-LCA 11 should conclude negotiations on legal form.
Australia, Switzerland, the US and the EU proposed considering “creative ways” of ensuring that work progresses productively, including meetings of expert groups, which could focus on issues that require more substantive work.
The Lead Authors \t\t\tsuggested, and France endorsed, a new sentence on North America \t\t\t 93experiencing locally severe economic damage, plus substantial \t\t\tecosystem, social and cultural disruption, 94 with the US opposing and \t\t\trequesting to examine its basis.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by SAMOA, the EU, the US and NEW ZEALAND, proposed moving towards 93implementation of decision 8/CP4 94 (procedures and mechanisms on compliance) rather than towards 93negotiations.
TURKEY suggested the new agreement take into account socio-economic realities and be guided by science.
Several parties also proposed various ways of restructuring the text, and AUSTRALIA suggested that the Co-Chairs prepare a document compiling the structural options.
GHANA, with the US, suggested considering technical issues under the SBSTA and through future decisions.
Delegates also discussed the \t\tpossibility of consolidation in the EU farm and livestock industry \t\tsimilar to that in the US agricultural sector, and the effects on \t\tmitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, SAMOA and JAMAICA, and opposed by the US and CANADA, said assigned amounts (AAs) were fixed.
He noted that the EU proposal does not specify whether countries should abide by QELROs individually or jointly.
AUSTRALIA identified the need to focus on the most vulnerable countries.
SAINT LUCIA called for confirmation that Annex I parties’ mitigation commitments will be taken in the context of the Kyoto Protocol.
With NORWAY, she noted the need for clarity on concepts, such as technology action plans.
Indicating flexibility on period length, SWITZERLAND, with NORWAY, emphasized that all parties should communicate their commitments at the same time.
During the discussion, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA identified two key entry points regarding mitigation by developing countries: the legal nature of NAMAs and unilateral NAMAs.
• encourages LDC parties to consider the options highlighted in the report of the LDC Expert Group (LEG), which identify various ways to further address the other elements of the LDC work programme.
Saudi Arabia \t\tand Kuwait urged a contact group discussion, while the EU and Japan \t\targued that there was an overlap with discussions on Protocol Article \t\t3.14 (see section above).
TURKEY said Annex I and non-Annex I categories do not reflect the current state of affairs, and proposed a contact group to discuss country categorization.
 \t\t \t\tRegarding the general \t\tworking hours at future meetings, the US suggested text recommending \t\tholding meetings within normal UN working hours.
MEXICO supported revising guidelines for non-Annex I national communications and reporting of all developing country mitigation actions.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to urgently implement adaptation actions, particularly in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS.
The EU, AOSIS, and the G-77/China preferred \t\ta focused approach, and suggested holding a technical workshop after \t\tCOP-10, which would consider submissions by Parties.
The US and SLOVENIA opposed the change, noting it excluded certain groups of Parties.
India, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA AND CHINA (BASIC), noted the importance of the transparency framework, including of support.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the Durban Platform as a universal platform to take international efforts on climate change forward by providing a “common ground” for all countries.
The EU highlighted that due to internal legislation already in force, it would immediately implement second commitment period commitments regardless of other parties’ ratification timing.
AUSTRALIA highlighted the need for further work on accounting methodologies for agriculture.
On collective efforts, CHINA suggested focusing on providing a long-term objective.
MAURITIUS said that governments must approve transfer of technologies from commercial firms.
CANADA, supported by the US, suggested that raising the number of Parties necessary to trigger the MCP would make it less confrontational.
The US clarified that it had an objection, not a reservation, and the EU reiterated its concern.
The US underlined that an agreement already exists which addresses most of the issues being discussed, and called for discussions to be based on the Copenhagen Accord.
CANADA, the US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, and AUSTRALIA said that cross-cutting elements of mitigation and adaptation should be addressed and that a side event would be helpful in advancing knowledge on these elements.
BURKINA FASO and BENIN noted the need to request additional details and establish precise criteria before consideration of the issue.
 SAUDI ARABIA stated that the AGBM must not dilute the main objective of the BM, which emphasizes analysis and assessment in the early stages, and that the agenda should include a separate item addressing analysis and assessment.
JAPAN called on SBI and SBSTA to elaborate the CDM and asked SBSTA and the IPCC to define sinks and measurements.
In these discussions, the EU, \t\tsupported by Canada and Switzerland, sought to emphasize the linkage \t\tbetween the work of the AWG and Protocol Article 9, and Norway \t\trepeatedly called for work on defining a long-term goal and discussed \t\tthe limitations of UNFCCC Article 2 (objective) in helping to define \t\tsuch a goal.
The LMDCs, opposed by the EIG, suggested incorporating the streamlined paragraphs into the Geneva text.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said transparency measures should include a comparable and complete accounting system for support provided and received.
BRAZIL amended language in the conclusions on "including those nominated by the IPCC," to anyone "engaged in the IPCC process."
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA stressed the need for binding outcomes under both the AWG-KP and the AWG-LCA.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), supporting the G-77 and China, said that SBSTA needs to prioritize and pay attention to scientific assessments, national communications from Annex I Parties, and technology transfer.
KUWAIT, SAUDI ARABIA, the BAHAMAS and others highlighted the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, with KUWAIT calling for developed country leadership in reducing emissions in these sectors.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, proposed a new paragraph that states: Many Parties stressed that by formally presenting the G-77/China position paper on initial communications from non-Annex I Parties, the implementation of their existing commitments in Article 4.1 had been sufficiently advanced.
INDIA said the mandate for the pre-2020 stocktake was to review and revisit targets under the Kyoto Protocol and noted that these are not clearly articulated in the reports put forward.
BRAZIL noted the need to include the principle of participation and that integration of adaptation into development is controversial.
KUWAIT stated that scientific information in the SAR was insufficient to inform the AGBM process.
Regarding overall accounting approaches, TUVALU supported accounting for social and cultural implications, and consistency with the ecosystem approach under the Convention on Biological Diversity and with the principles of sustainable development.
The US underscored that recent progress on REDD-plus indicates political will to include it in a Copenhagen agreement.
Noting the proposal did not address the group’s concern, the AFRICAN GROUP reserved the right to return to this issue after consulting within the group.
TUVALU suggested auctioning Assigned Amount Units.
On  , China, for the G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, the LMDCs, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP and INDONESIA proposed self-referral triggers.
Responding to questions, he described: the scope of Chile’s green tax, which generated close to US$ 200 million in the last year; and the BUR process, which was an opportunity to promote climate action and improve capacity.
On the second item, the EU informed the group they would propose draft text requesting the Secretariat to make the necessary updates.
 CHINA said that the SBI should consider informal intersessional consultations to facilitate agreement on the programme budget “if feasible.” On the request for a programme budget, the EU proposed stating that “several delegations noted the proposed increase of the budget and expressed concerns that a full justification should be made before it is agreed.” In addition, the EU proposed a “detailed” programme budget and specific outputs from each programme.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS proposed that compliance committee membership reflect equitable geographic representation, including small island states.
The EU and UMBRELLA GROUP supported the proposal to focus on linkages across several APA agenda items.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized tools, early warning systems, vulnerability mapping and access to data at the national, regional and global levels.
Special reporting conditions for small island developing states (SIDS) and least developed countries (LDCs) were discussed, with proposals ranging from voluntary reporting to reporting at longer intervals than other countries.
BRAZIL said progress in implementing the Protocol is hindered by uncertainty of its entry into force.
The EU, with Japan and the US, suggested deletion of the entire paragraph if it lacks agreement.
UGANDA stressed the need to respect the Convention’s principles.
SWITZERLAND said it was premature to take a decision on long-term actions without further research, information and a full assessment of options, and said this process was moving too fast.
SWITZERLAND highlighted the value of involving observer organizations, particularly the private sector.
Co-Chair Chow, supported by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, urged reference to "required."
NORWAY called for a biennial submission of national communications and inventories, supplemented by more detailed national communications at longer intervals.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, supported by Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, and Botswana, called for strengthening the long-term global goal to 1.5 c2 b0C.
SWITZERLAND, CANADA and the EU agreed that the global goal should be qualitative, with SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stressing it should focus on promoting resilience by integrating adaptation into national policies.
 The US: Timothy Wirth, Under-Secretary of State for Global Affairs, endorsed both the IPCC and the SAR, noting the SAR as a basis for urgent action.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, inter alia: underlined the importance of annual reports on the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories; called on Annex II parties to intensify efforts to fulfill commitments on the provision of support; called for greater contribution to adaptation, without conditions; and expressed regret that the NEEDS project would not continue.
India, for BASIC, which includes Brazil, China, India and South Africa, stressed that ADP negotiations are aimed at strengthening the multilateral climate regime, and not at negotiating a new regime or rewriting, restructuring or reinventing the Convention’s principles and provisions.
New Zealand, the EU and Australia expressed concerns on the provisional application of amendments.
Nauru, for AOSIS, announced plans to make a submission on upscaling action on renewable energy and energy efficiency in developed and developing countries.
AUSTRALIA, NORWAY, the EU, CANADA and others supported this approach.
COLOMBIA clarified their proposal is for: a global transformational goal; a short-term quantitative goal with a list of commitments by parties; and a dynamic and iterative process to scale-up the quantitative goal, which considers national budgetary cycles and responds to changing needs and capabilities.
When the President proposed that COP-2 “take note” of the Declaration and that it be annexed to the Report of the Session (FCCC/CP/1996/L.10), SAUDI ARABIA asked to have his statement annexed to the report as well.
CANADA said there are solutions to the problem of permanence, highlighting risk management options.
INDONESIA urged developing different options for financing at different phases of REDD+, including filling the gaps between fast-start and long-term financing.
AOSIS, emphasized the importance of ensuring coherence between the financial mechanism and the thematic bodies, with each body having its own governance structure.
JAPAN, supported by CANADA, announced the tabling of a draft proposal by the Umbrella Group on the creation of a new "window" in GEF to channel funding for the issues discussed in "Box A"; the streamlining of the GEF; and special consideration for LDCs and SIDS.
He concluded by calling for LDCs to be given priority in terms of Article 4.8 and 4.9 and for a decision at COP-6 on an urgent plan to implement Article 4.9.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged the development of a workplan at this session.
The EU, with JAPAN and the US, suggested deletion of the whole paragraph if it lacks agreement.
South Africa, supported by the EU, Norway, Bolivia, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Gambia, opposed by Japan and the Russian Federation, proposed taking these tables into consideration when updating document FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/INF.1.
 The EU highlighted the outcomes on financial architecture, including on the Adaptation Fund and LDCF, and underscored lack of progress on market mechanisms, including the CDM.
The EU said consensus at the ministerial level had been on a need for a binding compliance system applicable to all Parties, and with binding consequences.
Argentina for the G-77/China, Ghana for the African Group, and Saudi Arabia expressed concern about linking this item to the ADP, with Singapore suggesting the draft decision should focus on pre-2020 measures.
NIGERIA supported an independent assessment of consequences and highlighted difficulties in quantifying consequences.
AOSIS stressed that issues related to Articles 5, 7 and 8 need to be resolved before further guidance is given to the IPCC, and supported broader consultation.
JAPAN proposed ensuring comparability of efforts by aggregating sectoral potentials and cross-checking with indicators, including greenhouse gas intensity, marginal abatement costs and percent of GDP.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and others, insisted that its proposal serve as the basis for the group ef bf bds discussions.
PERU said that panels must be established at this session.
Agrawala described the OECD’s proposed “climate lens,” which involves determining the extent to which: specific policies, plans or projects could be vulnerable to climate risks; these climate risks have already been taken into consideration; and policies, plans or projects could lead to increased vulnerability or maladaptation.
TUVALU lamented proposals for LULUCF that would create subsidies for the forest industry and noted that these would delay agreement on this issue in Cancun.
 AUSTRALIA supported by the New Zealand, stated that delegates should restrict themselves to procedural, rather than substantive matters, and warned against moving into the work of the October session.
The US said UNFCCC Article 2 was a politically negotiated mitigation objective, and does not contain reference to impacts most relevant to policy-makers.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed constructive engagement on agriculture and conclusion of negotiations on REDD+ methodological guidance.
BRAZIL outlined his proposal to expand eligibility criteria for afforestation and reforestation activities.
INDIA pointed out that in the Chair ef bf bds presentation "the EBs had gained and the COP/MOP and Operational Entities had lost."
In the evening, IRAN reported on consultations regarding the proposed compensation fund.
The US highlighted a number of domestic developments including his country\'s first contributions to the LDC Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund.
The EU stressed the need to improve MRV systems for all parties, taking into account national capacities, and emphasized the use of markets as a key element of the new agreement.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, supported by Australia, called for discussion of objectives and scope.
 Chair Thorgeirsson explained that he had asked Terry Carrington (UK) and Philip Gwage (Uganda) to prepare draft conclusions on this item in consultation with interested Parties.
AOSIS called for urgent focus on loss and damage.
AILAC proposed a TEM on reviewing existing policy databases and, supported by Australia, said TEMs should focus on implementation.
TUVALU emphasized that discussions in the Kyoto Protocol track cannot lead to conclusions in other processes.
FRANCE \t\tstressed the need to clarify the cost of assumptions and time frames for \t\tstorage.
CHINA, with IRAN, KUWAIT, BRAZIL and ARGENTINA, said it was inappropriate to give ERTs, a simple fact finding body, a triggering role.
Saudi Arabia, US, Brazil and others, opposed by Italy and \t\t\tFrance, noted lack of time to continue consideration of the regional \t\t\ttable.
MALAYSIA expressed concern regarding AIJ as a means to advance Article 4.1.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA called for implementing the Durban balanced “package” by, inter alia: strengthening the Convention principles, in particular equity and common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR), expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-LCA, particularly on adaptation, financing and technology transfer, drawing attention to the finance gap from now to 2020.
CANADA looked forward to integrating the Dialogue’s spirit into broader work on the PAWP.
AOSIS expressed willingness to explore the possibility of a “common space” to discuss the scale of ambition of Annex I aggregate emission reductions.
BANGLADESH called for region-specific financing mechanisms and capacity building.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expected progress on agriculture and the transparency framework.
CHINA favored deleting all of Annex II.
MALAYSIA said agreement cannot be guaranteed at COP-9.
Canada, supported by the UK, proposed new text highlighting the need to be more direct and proposed taking a decision at this session.
 DENMARK: Svend Auken, Minister for the Environment and Energy, contrasted the need for reductions and the forecast for energy needs for the coming years and noted that even the OECD countries will experience substantial growth.
CHINA, IRAN and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, suggested that the paper serve as a basis for 93consideration 94 of compliance.
In presenting its preliminary views, JAPAN proposed a single compliance body and outlined steps ranging from technical/financial assistance to a series of recommendations such as strengthening of reporting requirements.
The EU said a long-term goal based on 2⁰C requires reductions of at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, which implies urgent short-term actions.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted safeguarding vulnerable countries as the central element of a shared vision.
The EU urged parties to move forward on implementing the Cancun Agreements and supported Colombia’s proposal.
In the end, Parties agreed to reflect the concern of the US in \t\tthe conclusions.
Noting the politically sensitive nature of the topic, the US preferred starting with a smaller meeting instead of a more open and larger workshop.
SAUDI ARABIA called for continuing the Improved Forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
SBI takes note of \t\tthe needs and concerns of non-Annex I Parties relating to specific \t\tcapacity building and training, and reiterates the need to strengthen \t\tnational institutions, regional and sub-regional climate change centers \t\tand centers of excellence, especially in LDCs and SIDS.
The EU suggested that Parties have the possibility to submit themselves to a voluntary assessment of their eligibility.
EGYPT \t\tproposed that the Secretariat look into a mechanism for assessed \t\tcontributions.
The Seychelles, for AOSIS, called for identifying barriers and scaling up resources for pre-2020 action, particularly through the GCF.
On the supplementary provisional agenda (FCCC/SBI/2013/1/Add.1), the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with BELARUS and UKRAINE, highlighted a proposal to introduce an additional item on procedural and legal issues relating to decision-making by the COP and CMP, in response “to deficiencies in the UNFCCC’s application of UN system rules of procedures, norms and principles.”
CHINA said public investment is the key to climate technology R&amp;D. INDIA showed delegates a 5 Watt LED light bulb, saying it produces as much light as a 40 Watt incandescent light bulb or an 8 Watt compact fluorescent one.
ARGENTINA stated that flexibility should not be a “blank cheque”.
 \t\tMATTERS RELATING TO LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES:
The NETHERLANDS noted the high expectations set for COP-6 and said that its success will lie in producing a package addressing the concerns of all Parties.
However, Germany speaking for the EU, \t\t\tand Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported separate consideration.
SAMOA said the emphasis should be on the preventative options in the text.
The EU suggested inviting all parties in a position to do so, to contribute to the LDC Fund.
MAURITIUS suggested using specialized and professional bodies to monitor technology transfer projects.
Other delegates, including Brazil and the US, preferred the formulation proposed by the authors, which was then approved.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed comparability and supported a five-year commitment period, allowing for response to emerging science and a deepening of commitments before 2020.
JAPAN underscored action by all major emitters.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged parties to suggest ideas for compromise and called for avoiding line-by-line discussions on sections without agreement.
The EU also underscored environmental additionality and monitoring and verification procedures.
CHINA said mitigation potential is determined by political will.
The EU underscored that the best adaptation strategy was a workable mitigation regime, and stressed integrating adaptation into sustainable development processes.
In the opening Plenary on Thursday, 24 October, the Central Group of Eleven (CG-11), called for further consultations to develop a future framework for the economies in transition.
On countries that would be most severely impacted by potential negative consequences, SAUDI ARABIA, COLOMBIA, KUWAIT, NIGERIA and others preferred referring to countries identified in Convention Articles 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, while the EU, JAPAN and AOSIS preferred referring to the poorest and most vulnerable developing country parties.
The US supported legally binding mid- and long-term quantifiable emission reductions with a timetable, in the form of an appendix, schedule or register.
He also called for increased support to the LDCs for the implementation of the LDC work programme.
JAPAN proposed that parties adopt a shared vision of reducing global emissions by 50% by 2050 in line with the goal supported by the 2008 G8 Summit.
 \t\tRegarding the participation of observers, \t\tthe US said his delegation was seeking to have a physical presence \t\tduring meetings of the CDM Executive Board.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, welcomed the draft MOU and said that the draft was "balanced" and had been approved at the fifth GEF Council meeting.
After extensive debate, the G-77/CHINA proposed, with the EU and NEW ZEALAND, a reworked text as a negotiating document.
On the pending parts of the guidelines under Articles 7 and 8, the EU circulated a paper on preventing and resolving technical problems and discrepancies in the technical standards and reporting and review text.
The UAE pointed to the information gap in terms of impacts of response measures and said Annex I countries are obliged to take the lead in bridging the gap.
On financial arrangements, the decision, inter alia: requests the GEF, as an operating entity of the financial mechanism, through the LDC Fund, to consider how to enable activities for the preparation of national adaptation plans
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), said climate change limits implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The UK, supported by Estonia, called for specifying the relevant range of dates, from pre-industrial times to 2017, and text was inserted to reflect this.
 \t\t \t\tPROPOSAL FROM BELARUS TO AMEND ANNEX B OF THE PROTOCOL
On sustainable practices and technologies, MALI highlighted seed and water harvesting technologies, extension services, and weather and climate information services.
NEW ZEALAND said the absence of a formal separation between the two branches questioned the very existence of a separation between a facilitation and an enforcement process.
BHUTAN and NEPAL called attention to the specific vulnerabilities of ecosystems in mountainous countries.
The US also emphasized that its commitment is not contingent on movement of domestic legislation.
Impact of climate change measures on OPEC: Faten Alawadhi, Downstream Oil Industry Analyst, Energy Studies Department, OPEC, discussed the impact of response measures on OPEC.
The EU welcomed progress on REDD+, agriculture, financial information reporting methodologies and response measures.
In the afternoon, the delegates adopted the conclusions on impacts of a single project on emissions in the commitment period (FCCC/SBSTA/1998/L.5) and acknowledged the additional information provided by ICELAND (FCCC/SBSTA/1998/Misc.1/Add.4).
e2 80 9d The EU suggested going over the draft decision to identify problems and then move to more detailed negotiations.
Regarding a review of the JI guidelines, the EU supported such a review, but stressed that any action in this regard must not pre-empt a decision regarding AAUs in the post-2012 period.
 Chair Chow Kok Kee (MALAYSIA) reported on the roundtable on differentiation.
 On 24 October, the EU, opposed by the US and the G-77/China, proposed an agenda item on the methodological issues relating to the stabilization of greenhouse gas emissions.
The EU identified the long-term global goal as the core of a shared vision and highlighted: the 2°C target; peaking emissions; and reviewing the long-term goal as science evolves.
CHINA expressed concern with the lack of constructive discussions in the finance group and EGYPT highlighted the need for text on long-term finance.
Brazil, Peru, Chile, Colombia, New Zealand, Costa Rica, Bolivia, Australia, the US, Japan, Uruguay, Canada, Norway and the Environmental Integrity Group argued in favor of inclusion, citing a variety of motivations and preconditions.
On the role of the COP/MOP, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SAMOA, identified an overlap in the functions assigned to the COP/MOP, the EB and the compliance body.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that consideration of spillover effects should focus on non-Annex I parties.
The G-77/CHINA accepted the document.
The EU said it had submitted text to the Secretariat on the rates applicable for the restoration of emissions under the compliance action plan and for payments to be made to the compliance fund.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with the formulation of the drafting group facilitators’ notes on sub-paragraphs 1(b)(i) and 1(b)(ii) of the BAP.
CHINA recalled that no commitments to increase ambition were made at the roundtable, stressing that increased ambition is critical for building trust.
On the proposed consolidation of options 1 and 2 in paragraph 141 on the transparency framework, the US cautioned against consolidations leading to unclear options, using paragraph 141 as an example, which contains two different ideas on differentiation in their respective chapeaus.
AOSIS, Argentina, for the G-77/China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, Colombia, for a number of Latin American countries, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, India, Singapore, China and Venezuela emphasized that the Durban outcome must include a decision to establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Delegates were unable to take action on the adequacy of commitments or to begin negotiations on a draft protocol submitted by the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS).
AUSTRALIA said it should put into place a process for future global emission reduction arrangements.
BOLIVIA underscored the need for Annex I countries to report on the relative contributions of domestic efforts and market mechanisms to meeting their targets and noted the importance of financial penalties or target adjustments in cases of non-compliance.
CHINA expressed preference for public sources of financing but said he is open to exploring other sources.
The EU expressed willingness to explore issues including: increasing observer interventions in plenary meetings, contact groups and other sessions; opening the first informal meetings to observers; enhancing reporting on closed door meetings; enhancing opportunities for observer submissions; and increasing technical input from observers.
On the SCCF 92s guiding principles, the G-77/CHINA said that the Fund should be complementary to the GEF climate focal areas, the LDC Fund, and bilateral and multilateral funding, and maximize adaptation funding opportunities for non-Annex I Parties not eligible for support from the LDC Fund.
The EU supported mandating the Chair to make necessary arrangements to facilitate progress, including proposals on text and innovative negotiating formats.
PERU, for Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica and Panama, said parties in Durban decided to bring the AWG-LCA to its operative end, which implies the need to define next steps for implementation and closure of the negotiation track.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed that they would not accept a joint discussion.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for focusing on the core elements of the AWG-KP’s mandate on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual QELROs.
Regarding the bracketed text, the G-77/CHINA and the MARSHALL ISLANDS preferred the first bracketed proposal.
OMAN, and others, urged Annex I Parties to provide greater technical and financial assistance to developing countries.
AOSIS, Jamaica, Peru and Brazil, opposed by Norway and Saudi Arabia, supported retaining the text in the preamble.
\t\tHe emphasized that climate change is already a “harsh reality” and \t\tindicated that the EU is prepared to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 \t\tprovided that other industrialized countries take on commitments and \t\tthat economically advanced developing countries contribute adequately.
INDONESIA, JAPAN, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for considering non-state actors’ inputs.
CHINA, \t\tsupported by BANGLADESH, EGYPT and SAUDI ARABIA, and opposed by AUSTRIA, \t\tcalled for removing a reference to developing countries as possessing \t\tthe places where most of the increase in the number of sources is \t\texpected to occur.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need to address loss and damage, and links between mitigation and adaptation.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA highlighted that their proposal for land-based accounting (option B) takes away the option to pick and choose how land use is reported, and that Annex I countries have been reporting on land use since 2005.
St. Lucia, for AOSIS, emphasized prioritizing: operationalizing the accounting structure; establishing environmental integrity safeguards; sustainable development provisions; and, with Egypt, for the Arab Group, allocating a share of proceeds to adaptation.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the financial mechanism, particularly concerning access to finance.
BRAZIL supported the proposal.
The US said that it did not support a separate reporting system for demonstrable progress beyond what is currently required to be included in the national communications.
Parties debated whether to delete a proposal by ARGENTINA, URUGUAY and COLOMBIA on “tackling the drivers of deforestation and forest degradation.”
On amendments/numbers, co-facilitator Lefevere (EU) reported on differences among parties on whether a proposal for amendments to the Kyoto Protocol contained in Option B (consequential amendments) can be considered.
On project verification, NEW ZEALAND suggested that individual Parties determine the level of verification that they desire, as the countries involved in JI have both a target and an incentive for ensuring the credibility of projects.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted renewable energy and energy efficiency, and, supported by SWITZERLAND, proposed addressing policy options for energy sector fiscal instruments.
The G-77/CHINA favored retaining reference to a TTM.
The EU acknowledged Croatia’s right to appeal and identified the need to be clear concerning procedural issues so that the same approach can be used in future appeals.
Recognising that countries will carry different burdens with regard to mitigation, SWITZERLAND stressed cooperation and partnerships.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for data from Annex I countries to better understand the gap between their pledges and science.
On the identification of "possible" adverse effects and "possible" impacts, the US, supported by the EU, deleted references to "possible".
 Decisions FCCC/CP/1996/L.3 and L.8 note that the net total requirement for the 1996-1997 core budget fund is currently estimated as US$13,573,500 and that the level of the working capital reserve will remain at 8.3% of estimated expenditure for 1997.
The EIG, the LDCs and AILAC supported capturing the roundtables’ outcomes in informal notes; the LMDCs opposed.
INDIA said the G-77/China proposal provides more details and places the SBSTA\'s work in the context of implementation.
During discussions, Egypt, the Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Solomon Islands, the Philippines and China raised a range of issues, inter alia: the contribution of international aviation to the EU’s emissions reduction target; comparability of efforts; supplementarity; a compliance mechanism; and why the EU cannot unilaterally move to a 30% reduction target.
 \t\tNumerous parties urged a stronger focus on \t\tadaptation and the AFRICA GROUP and SAUDI ARABIA expressed \t\tdisappointment at slow progress on technology transfer.
The EU supported including text on emissions from international transport and market mechanisms.
During the SBSTA closing plenary on 9 June, Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that he could not accept the proposed SBSTA conclusions.
Uganda, Egypt, for the Arab Group, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Bangladesh, China, the Philippines, Timor-Leste, Venezuela, Bolivia, the Gambia, Peru, AOSIS, Colombia and Sudan supported addressing political commitments first.
The EU, TUVALU, SAMOA, CHINA and JAMAICA urged that the CDM exclude provision for sinks.
 SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need for assessment and analysis of each option for quantified reductions, particularly to weigh the economic costs against the environmental benefits.
The UK proposed that, since the precautionary approach is a means to an end rather than an end in itself, it should be part of the principles rather than the objectives section.
AUSTRALIA, supported \t\tby the EU, noted that the proposal establishes a framework for a \t\tprogramme of work, and that the programme itself and its detailed \t\tactivities could be adopted at a later stage.
Noting that the sixth assessment cycle already has a heavy workload and raising concerns about the high cost and feasibility of Option B, New Zealand, Denmark, Japan, the UK, the US, Luxembourg, Sweden, Canada, China, India, Netherlands, Ghana, France, Belgium, Argentina, Turkey, Indonesia, and the Republic of Korea expressed a preference for Option A.
On  , Sierra Leone, for the African Group, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, and others identified the need to focus on the most vulnerable countries, including Africa, the LDCs and SIDS.
Mexico, for the EIG, said progress on REDD+ leaves it e2 80 9cpoised to become a mechanism ready to deliver real, permanent outcomes.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 also agrees that the LDCs and SIDS may communicate information on strategies, plans and actions for low GHG emission development reflecting their special circumstances in the context of INDCs;
TUVALU, supported by AOSIS, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SWITZERLAND, suggested deleting reference to a "work programme" and replacing it with "elements for future SBSTA work."
 ZIMBABWE highlighted the result that developing countries are the most heavily affected and have less adaptation options regarding food, water and human health.
AUSTRALIA called for focus on key policy and procedural issues relevant to the negotiating process.
NICARAGUA invited the GCF to reassess the membership of private banks to avoid “some embarrassing entries” and, with INDIA, highlighted insufficient funding of the GCF.
BELARUS called for COP 22 discussions to clearly reflect all countries’ participation and efforts to introduce climate technologies in their economies.
On the "analytical framework," the UK, AUSTRALIA, and the US raised a number of questions.
In addition, the EU \t\tprovided background information with regard to its emissions reduction \t\ttargets.
TRINIDAD &amp; TOBAGO preferred a broader reference to environmentally-sound technology rather than specifying mitigation and adaptation technologies.
SAUDI ARABIA supported removing text that contradicts the Convention and the Bali Action Plan (BAP).
SOUTH AFRICA supported consolidating funding sources into one instrument that can be easily accessed, and said public financing, not the private sector, must provide the main sources of financing.
The US responded that there is a difference between what countries can deliver, but reiterated that “major players” can undertake biennial reporting with existing capacity.
The PHILIPPINES said the definitions and principles need to be consistent with the Convention.
SAUDI ARABIA called for addressing economic diversification to build resilience and EGYPT highlighted vulnerability assessments and developing countries’ urgent needs.
During broader discussion on the Secretariat’s paper on possible QELROs as submitted by parties, SOUTH AFRICA noted the importance of including information on what proportion of the QELROs are to be achieved through flexibility mechanisms.
Work Plan up to COP-6: On a possible work plan up to COP-6, the EU and the US sought intensification of the process, in particular through technical workshops.
JAPAN explained that the 1990 base year is far more advantageous to some countries and influences how reduction targets look.
BANGLADESH proposed an incremental increase from 2013 to 2020.
NEW ZEALAND, with the EU and the US, stressed improving reporting of bunker emissions for consistency and comparability.
 \t\tLEVEL OF EMISSIONS FOR THE BASE YEAR OF CROATIA:
While the agenda was generally agreeable, the EU objected to \t\tthe inclusion of the item on Protocol Article 2.3 (response measures) in \t\tthe agenda on the grounds that it was being addressed elsewhere.
\t\tAfter further discussion, the G-77/CHINA agreed to Chair Asadi 92s \t\tsuggestion to adopt the agenda with the understanding that the SBI Chair \t\twould act on any subsequent instruction from the COP President at the \t\tnext SBI plenary.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation.
While the agenda was \t\tprovisionally agreed, a dispute resurfaced over the agenda item relating \t\tto small island developing States (SIDS).
 Chair Patrick Sz ef bf bdll (UK) opened the fourth session of the Ad Hoc Group on Article 13 (AG13-4) on Tuesday, 25 February.
A contact group will be convened, co-chaired by SBI Chair John Ashe and Dan Reifsnyder (US).
The US supported improving software, particularly in the synthesis and inventory assessment phase.
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM highlighted the Heart of Borneo forest \t\tconservation initiative, and VIET NAM said the CDM should include \t\tincentives for reducing deforestation.
The EU and US agreed to develop a common text on Article 5.2 as a basis for further negotiation.
NEW ZEALAND said there was no need to spend a lot of time negotiating comparability criteria.
AOSIS presented alternative text for this section, suggesting the deletion of the paragraph.
Drawing an analogy with apartheid, the G-77/CHINA lamented that developing countries had to justify themselves, questioning the approach of the ADP Co-Chairs.
MEXICO elaborated on her proposal for a green fund, noting that institutional arrangements should be under the COP.
JAPAN also submitted a proposal outlining options setting limits on the possibility of a Party-to-Party trigger.
CHINA suggested capacity building as an element of the guidelines and underlined the diversity of domestic systems.
The EU stressed that the SCCF should have a catalytic function.
JAPAN proposed an open-ended expert meeting format and called for avoiding duplicating the work of the IPCC.
The EU expressed concern that using multiple base years would require a Protocol amendment, as several provisions, including Protocol Articles 3.5 and 3.7, refer to “1990” rather than to “base year.” AUSTRALIA noted that multiple base years present challenges in the calculation of AAUs.
The US, with CANADA, also expressed frustration at the rate of progress, and indicated support for continuing work towards resolving the G-77/China 92s concern about the situation.
POLAND said reduced emission levels in countries with economies in transition helped to offset slight increases by OECD country Parties.
Noting the requirement for increasingly global participation, he said the EU was ready for discussions with all Parties at COP- 4 and beyond, under FCCC Article 7.2, on regular review of the Convention implementation.
CHILE emphasized the need to understand the mitigation potential of pledges ex ante (to the 2015 agreement)to avoid double-counting and assess whether mitigation pledges are fair and based on equity.
The EU hoped for upcoming workshops, input from the secretariat and submissions from Parties addressing technology transfer issues.
AOSIS highlighted the importance of adequacy and predictability of climate finance and support.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said Bonn had provided a good opportunity to enhance understanding on each other e2 80 99s positions.
On the treatment of confidential data, the EU, supported by CHINA, said that confidential information should be available to review teams during desk reviews and stressed the development of guidelines for managing electronic information.
The US recalled his country’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but stressed intent to continue engagement, including in laying the foundations for guidelines for implementing the Paris Agreement.
Actions to minimize the impacts of response measures: SAUDI ARABIA said Annex I Parties should: eliminate tax distortions and remove subsidies; discourage nuclear energy; support wider use of CO2 sequestration technologies; help with economic diversification; and provide compensation where adverse effects are demonstrated.
Before breaking, President Pronk summarized the main unanswered questions: how to give substance to the request for compensation on Article 3.14; how to organize special facilities for LDCs; how EITs can also benefit from funding mechanisms, technology transfer and capacity building; whether the decision language should be mandatory for all decisions, or only for specific issues; whether to have one or two decisions on adverse effects; and how to resolve questions on the role of the GEF.
SAUDI ARABIA called for action as well as research.
The contact group considered the Co-Chairs 92 proposal for a draft decision on capacity building that was based on a G-77/China proposal and incorporated submissions from the EU and other Annex I Parties.
JAPAN supporting Australia, US and Norway, stated that the Chair\'s draft conclusions were well balanced and acceptable.
SWITZERLAND noted the IPCC report provides a clear signal, but added that mitigation measures are available and many will cost little.
SWITZERLAND, with AOSIS, supported using the EU proposal as the basis for the COP-6 decision.
 The INTERNATIONAL OCEANOGRAPHIC COMMISSION (IOC) OF UNESCO reported on recent IOC activities related to the UNFCCC and highlighted proposed actions, including strengthening the cooperative links between IOC, IPCC and SBSTA, preparation of a sea-level database for distribution among AOSIS States at COP-2, initiation of a coral reefs study from the carbon accumulation viewpoint and provision to the IPCC of the list of IOC experts.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the progress on CCS and agriculture.
CUBA stressed that the shared vision goes beyond a long-term goal.
On  , China, Algeria, Bolivia, Venezuela and AOSIS emphasized the need for ambitious commitments from Annex I parties.
 \t\tCANADA, with the US and NORWAY, proposed including information on \t\tstorage as well as capture when stating the percentages of global fossil \t\tfuel carbon dioxide emissions that could be suitable for capture.
SAUDI ARABIA called for attention to: water; marine protection and blue carbon; economic diversification; land use; urban planning; and food security.
COLOMBIA called for attention to “missing policy options,” such as transport.
The consolidation of paragraphs 30 and 32 referencing regional economic integration organizations and joint implementation of commitments was not agreed upon, as TUVALU opposed this, explaining it would create unnecessary complications.
The agreed version of the guidelines follows the US suggestions.
Nauru, for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), expressed hope that the ADP would demonstrate a “sober, serious and determined sense of urgency and ambition.” She called for a mitigation work plan that makes strides in closing the recognized mitigation ambition gap.
  Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed a legally-binding agreement and a system based on two annexes, including the possibility of making amendments for parties to increase their level of mitigation ambition through COP decisions.
AOSIS suggested ensuring transparency, accuracy, completeness, comparability and consistency.
BANGLADESH requested the COP President to engage with parties constructively.
The US supported market mechanisms that facilitate action and are efficient, environmentally robust, credible and sustainable.
On accreditation, BRAZIL suggested replacing a reference to the accreditation body with the EB.
On relevant Convention processes, URUGUAY said embarking on a NAP process with seven other countries will enhance its identification and assessment of relevant technologies and practices.
SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA requested retaining paragraphs relating to loss of income.
Noting uneven progress across facilitated groups, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Angola, for the LDCs, Maldives, for AOSIS, Guatemala, for AILAC, Bolivia, for ALBA, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for clarity on the intended outcome of this session, and for a clear mandate for the co-facilitators.
SAUDI ARABIA called for immediate action to create structures for dealing with impacts of response measures, with compensation occurring after the extent of impact has been proved.
AOSIS, the LDCs and COLOMBIA supported retaining it also in the context of COP/MOP decisions.
Participants developed an LDC proposal for the COP-6 negotiations, requesting "immediate" and "long-term" adaptation funds for the purpose of preparing and implementing national adaptation programmes of action.
 The COP adopted a decision on the extension of the mandate of the LDC Expert Group (FCCC/SBI/2015/10/Add.1).
SAUDI ARABIA insisted on references to sinks and greenhouse gases other than CO2.
INDIA cautioned against conflating adaptation planning and action with communication.
On the proposed title for the non-inventory part of the guidelines, the EU suggested shortening it to read "UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national reports," as agreed in the contact group.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, acknowledged flexibility shown in enabling progress and expressed hope that this constructive spirit would prevail in Durban.
Underscoring the need for continuity, INDIA emphasized that business and markets respond to mitigation policies and expect predictability; and therefore changes must be weighed against the scale of necessity.
CHINA, with CHILE, emphasized that action from developing countries should be carried out within the framework of sustainable development and requires financial and technological support from developed countries.
The EU noted that INDCs are nationally determined and called for a rules-based approach that is multilaterally determined.
In the contact group, Costa Rica read out a joint submission by Colombia for AILAC, Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, and Switzerland on the need for corresponding adjustments in connection with transfers of mitigation outcomes and emission reductions under Article 6.
CANADA supported a coordinated response among existing efforts in capacity building and proposed three steps: assessment of needs; overview of actions currently undertaken by various actors; and definition of a clear scope for action.
JAPAN proposed mapping out potential areas of convergence and divergence as undertaken in the technology group, and said the UNFCCC should play a catalytic role in strengthening adaptation.
The EU, Tuvalu, Samoa, China and Jamaica urged that the CDM exclude provision for sinks.
NIGERIA said the SAR is a preliminary document that the IPCC will continue to develop.
The G-77/CHINA agreed to the two drafting groups, but asked for flexibility to discuss issues as appropriate in the groups, which parties accepted.
Several speakers, including the G-77/CHINA, the EU and CG-11, supported entry into force of the Protocol in time for the WSSD.
The EU clarified that e2 80 9cevolving responsibilities and capabilities e2 80 9d captures the growth in the levels of prosperity and GHG emissions of developing countries, noting that some are currently more prosperous than some EU member states.
  CHINA stressed the importance of the timing of the agreement, including precise dates for the starting and ending of its implementation, and a timeframe related to commitments.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said that decisions taken in Doha represent hope for the future of multilateral action on climate change; noted success on ambitious objectives and the opening the second commitment period; and looked forward to full and continuous implementation of the decisions.
 During the morning contact group, chaired by Anke Herold (Germany), UKRAINE preferred one decision with five annexes.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: balanced attention to adaptation and mitigation, including their linkages; no unilateral actions by developed countries; and provision of support.
The EU welcomed progress on the Nairobi work programme and technology transfer, and indicated research dialogue and CCS in the CDM as areas for further work.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that consideration on the proposed draft decision not proceed until methodological and legal issues are resolved, and proposed organizing a workshop and an IPCC evaluation.
No movement was reported on the operation of the LDC Fund.
INDIA expressed concern that TEMs are shifting the onus of mitigation away from Annex I parties.
The UK indicated that there is a \t\trequirement beyond pure assessment that needs to be recognized.
Miguel Arias Ca c3 b1ete, Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy, European Commission, highlighted that the EU had, in 2016, reduced GHG emissions by 23% compared with 1990 levels.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a meeting before Doha to advance the ADP’s work and avoiding lengthy discussion on the organization of work.
India, for BASIC, highlighted the need to maintain the delicate balance under the two-track approach and emphasized the importance of equitable access to sustainable development.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and ARGENTINA stressed possible resolutions for legal issues raised.
SAUDI ARABIA indicated no agreement exists to supersede the Convention or replace its principles, including the balance of obligations.
Opposed by the EU and CANADA, he said that the G-77/China 92s text should serve as the basis for negotiation.
 On scope and key issues, several parties noted the need to address all elements of the transparency framework in a balanced manner, and Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized transparency of action and support.
The EIG expressed disappointment that so many issues remain open.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU suggested annexing a summary of conclusions and recommendations to full reports.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said a shared vision means developed countries taking the lead in reducing emissions and developing countries pursuing a clean development path avoiding past mistakes, with adaptation as an integral element.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA stressed the importance of private-sector engagement and supported strong public-private partnerships.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested that an MCP could be a special ad hoc group of experts on legal and economic questions.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that significant progress on LULUCF may facilitate progress on Annex I emission reductions and that issues on the flexibility mechanisms and methodologies, in turn, could be unlocked by movement in Annex I emission reductions.
The UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME underscored their large portfolio of adaptation projects, noting their role as a GEF implementing agency for LDC Fund projects.
AUSTRALIA suggested giving the highest priority to methods for assessing mitigation and emissions projections.
The EU said that the preparations should focus on policy-making, and there should be a ministerial segment aimed at providing guidance to activities under the Convention.
INDIA noted problematic aspects in some proposals such as harmonization of standards, which can impose large costs on developing countries.
CHINA noted that there are challenges related to market mechanisms and conditions for considering them.
NORWAY, supported by several others, suggested establishing a contact group on REDD.
 The EU asked that the full range of issues covered in the SAR be considered in the Third Assessment Report (TAR).
JAPAN called for a more clearly defined in-depth review process.
The US responded that this change should await a written submission from the EU.
The EU responded that the Council decision is not part of the EU proposal for the protocol.
He supported the US on the membership of panels and said national experts could be provided to both TAPs.
The EU suggested that discussions focus on the legal form and the overall level of ambition.
On multiplication and discount factors under the CDM, JAPAN, CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, BRAZIL and others preferred no decision.
CANADA, AOSIS and others proposed changes, and discussions continued late into the night.
The EU presented a proposal for a new six-part structure for the guidelines under Article 8: general approach, national inventory submissions, information on assigned amounts, national systems, national registries, and national communications and other commitments.
JAPAN said it preferred repayment to the Parties.
SWITZERLAND underscored the need for strong IPR protection, noting that in many cases low-carbon technologies are not IPR-protected.
The US emphasized that “the times have changed” and that the US anticipates being more active, expressing interest in various issues under the AWG-KP, including the flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF.
 \t\tParties agreed that the Adaptation Fund Board will have 16 members from \t\tparties to the Protocol, with representation as follows: two from each \t\tof the five UN regional groups; one from SIDS; one from LDCs; two others \t\tfrom non-Annex I; and two others from Annex I.
SAUDI ARABIA said he could only accept text that states that an \t\texchange of views was held on UNFCCC activities relevant to other \t\tintergovernmental meetings and that requests the Secretariat to report \t\ton these activities.
AUSTRALIA was also disappointed that a favorable compromise could not be reached and requested guidance on the follow-up process of consultations.
The EU argued that it would be difficult to establish standardized baselines without discount factors, but opposed multiplication factors.
Germany, the Maldives, the UK, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden, and Saudi Arabia urged the ATG-Finance to continue working with other UN organizations.
GRENADA expressed concern over a number of recommendations, including devolving responsibility for validation to host countries and the option of issuing emission reduction units (ERUs) after 2012 in the transition period before countries take on second commitment period QELROs.
With SWITZERLAND and HUNGARY, she emphasized the need for increased domestic action and called for continuation of AIJ and a smooth transition in the future to the CDM and JI.
JAPAN said parties who provide and receive support should work together to mobilize private finance.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO supported China and proposed references to the AOSIS statement throughout the report.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined that mitigation actions should not hinder developing countries’ diversification.
With AILAC, he stressed the need for flexibility to allow qualitative NDCs.
COLOMBIA stressed the need to retain the structure of the BAP and not reinvent Convention language, noting that regarding adaptation, the Chair’s text “appears as if two years of negotiations never happened.” On finance, TIMOR-LESTE suggested that this should be in the form of a percentage of developed countries’ Gross Domestic Product.
On pre-session briefings, the UK supported the aims of holding pre-session briefings but, with the US, France and Germany noted the budgetary implications of such meetings.
CANADA raised majority voting and provision for minority decisions.
GUATEMALA identified barriers to \t\ttechnology transfer, including financial, implementation, and \t\tdissemination issues.
The EU stressed, inter alia: the need to adopt a gender action plan and launch the local communities and indigenous peoples platform; transparency discussions under the SBs; and the need to start work on common NDC timeframes, and on enhancing the implementation of training and public awareness, participation and access to information under the Paris Agreement.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, underscored that an agreement under the AWG-LCA will not be possible unless agreement is reached on a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that some of these proposals would likely require amendments to the Kyoto Protocol.
 \t\tFinally, Parties discussed the decision on the LDC Fund.
BANGLADESH supported the speedy application of the Adaptation and LDC Funds, and highlighted the particular vulnerability of low lying and small island states.
The EU suggested including appendices on technical issues such as baselines and monitoring.
BOLIVIA highlighted the reluctance of some parties to join a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, and questioned why parties want to “kill” a system that works for many.
On sinks in the CDM, the US, CANADA, JAPAN, COSTA RICA, AUSTRALIA, COLOMBIA, HONDURAS and BOLIVIA, opposed by the EU, CHINA and GHANA, argued in favor of including sinks.
The US said cooperative action to promote and enhance technology development and transfer should include existing technology and financial mechanisms.
The EU identified several issues for further consideration, including: contribution criteria based on ability to pay and responsibility for emissions; the need for assessed contributions; defining funding recipients; and determining how funding resources should be delivered.
BANGLADESH highlighted the need for additional funding representing 1.5% of annual GDP of Annex I countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized a review of CDM modalities would create greater confidence in the CDM as a mitigation tool.
Noting that some aspects of the climate are changing faster than foreseen in the AR4, such as those leading to the rapid reduction in Arctic sea ice, the UK explained its proposal for an update report on current climate trends and emerging science, to be prepared within the next 18-24 months.
CHINA restated support for the “balanced package” reached at Durban, and emphasized the need to continue work under the AWG-LCA according to the Bali Action Plan.
94 GERMANY highlighted that ocean and geological storage \t\tpotential cannot be directly compared given their different retention \t\ttimes, and JAPAN noted that this difference is addressed elsewhere in \t\tthe SPM.
SWITZERLAND said that in considering the types of projects that are eligible, possible negative spillover effects into other multilateral domains should be taken into consideration.
JAPAN said the issue was complex and the expertise of IMO and ICAO was needed.
This item was taken up in informal consultations, co-facilitated by Andrew Rakestraw (US) and Xiang Gao (China), which met six times.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested that a modified multilateral consultative process serve as a facilitative body in this structure.
The EU and Switzerland said the CDM should commence immediately after COP-6 on a permanent rather than interim basis.
The NETHERLANDS then reported on the outcome of consultations on outstanding issues not reflected in the Co-Chairs 92 new non-paper.
Regarding issuance and cancellation of assigned amounts (AA) related to Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4, the G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU and US, suggested referring to "additions" and "subtractions" from AA in the guidelines under Article 7.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA highlighted information exchange on cross-sectoral issues.
AUSTRALIA said the TCN and TEC should have operational autonomy and should regularly report to the SBSTA for finance, review and guidance.
The US pointed to five emerging themes among the many SR proposals: desertification; cryosphere; oceans; food and agriculture; and mitigation and adaptation linkages.
94 BELGIUM proposed, and delegates agreed, to reference the \t\tsection of the Special Report on environmental impacts, risk, and risk \t\tmanagement.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the full implementation of NAPAs and the LDC work programme, highlighting the need for support and resources.
 The US proposal contains: emissions budgets (banking and borrowing emissions); annual reports on measurement, reporting and compliance by "Annex A" and "Annex B" countries.
SAUDI ARABIA supported progress in discussions on potential consequences.
MEXICO, for Colombia, Costa Rica and Honduras, elaborated on elements of a national financial arrangement for REDD+, introducing the concept of a REDD+ unit equivalent to one ton of carbon dioxide, which should be issued on the basis of: MRVed actions; established forest reference levels; a safeguards information system; and a national REDD+ registry.
CANADA said sufficient evidence should be provided to support cases.
JAPAN, INDIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stated that the Revised Guidelines should be applied to recalculate 1990 base year GHG inventories and all subsequent years.
Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called on the Presidency to ensure bilateral consultations both with the G-77/China as a whole, and with the main sub-groups of the G-77/China.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said enhanced action on adaptation should deal first with current, then anticipated, climate change impacts.
GERMANY stated that it would make a considerable contribution towards facilitating the participation of developing countries.
NEW ZEALAND explained his proposed amendments, stressing, inter alia, that the review process, which will be electronic, should not be prejudged.
BRAZIL urged consideration of inputs that would be necessary to assess equity in the global stocktake.
The G-77/CHINA stressed inclusion of financial additionality among methodological issues.
The UMBRELLA GROUP said the text needed elaboration on issues such as forestry, international consultation and analysis (ICA), mitigation and MRV, as well as tighter, more operative language.
ALGERIA \t\tstressed the importance of decoupling economic growth from greenhouse \t\tgas emissions, and looking beyond the first commitment period.
Switzerland, for the EIG, thanked the Chair for his proposed agenda and for including additional items.
