class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; SUDAN, on behalf of the Africa Group, supported the proposal and said the SBSTA-21 in-session workshop results should be included.
CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and ARGENTINA, said that most of the proposed actions should be adopted by States and that the Argentine proposal could be included in the draft decision requesting SBSTA to organize an in-session workshop on these issues.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/China, proposed that submitting data and information on HWP should explicitly apply to Annex I Parties.
The US, with CANADA and the EU, proposed that non-Annex I Parties should also be allowed to submit information if they wish to do so.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, EU, CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed to include reference to the implementation of the framework.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; CHINA said policies and frameworks are not technological issues, while the EU argued that they are related to barriers and deployment.
On renewable energy, CANADA, with the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, argued that no specific technology should be promoted.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, noted that the proposal establishes a framework for a programme of work, and that the programme itself and its detailed activities could be adopted at a later stage.
SAUDI ARABIA reiterated the need to focus on existing technologies and, opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, US, CHILE, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN, pointed to the necessity to address the spillover effects of mitigation.
The EU, supported by the US, proposed addressing co-benefits.
Opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, US, CHILE, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN, the EU, with NORWAY, proposed focusing on energy efficiency and renewables, as well as policy and regulatory frameworks.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; The US asked for confirmation that the draft conclusions had been agreed, and the G-77/CHINA expressed that without agreement on the decision, the informally agreed draft conclusions remain unapproved as well.
The EU, US and AUSTRALIA questioned the need for 93forums 94 on insurance for adverse effects of response measures and on economic diversification prior to such adverse effects becoming apparent, but stated that a one-off event on modeling may be of value.
The US, supported by CANADA and the EU, said text on mobilizing resources for implementation should mirror language in decision 5/CP.7.
