class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; BARBADOS requested delegates to be mindful of UNFCCC Article 4.8 (adverse effects), and provide support to SIDS.
MICRONESIA emphasized that the urgent adaptation needs of SIDS should not be ef bf bdmixed-up ef bf bd with those of oil-producing countries.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, with the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, noted increased hurricane intensity.
 The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged developing and developed countries to make efforts within their own capabilities and explore new and flexible mechanisms to address climate change.
IRELAND, FRANCE, SWEDEN and MICRONESIA supported a prompt, comprehensive and open dialogue on the future of the climate change process.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;Martin Puta Tofinga, Minister of Environment, Soil and Agriculture, Kiribati, noted that SIDS are some of the most vulnerable countries to the impacts of climate change and urged Parties that have not yet ratified the Protocol to do so.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;KENYA, for the Africa Group, highlighted the urgency of adaptation, and emphasized the need to operationalize the Special Climate Change Fund.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;The NETHERLANDS, for the EU, said the last decade and the entry into force of the Protocol have provided the foundations for increased international action on climate change.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, said conclusions should only state that an exchange of views occurred and, with SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, said reporting by the Secretariat must only be on activities on which there is consensus among the Parties.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said: COP-11 should be updated on the outcomes of the events in question; the COP should be noted as a resource body for the Commission on Sustainable Development discussions on energy and climate change; and that the conclusions should refer to a miscellaneous document reflecting the EU ef bf bds intervention in Plenary.
AOSIS, supported by the EU, and opposed by the US, JAPAN and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed draft text that includes views of Parties given in Plenary.
The US, SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA cautioned against negotiating the outcomes of processes before they begin.
