The US said the US Country Studies Program was one of the first to carry out vulnerability assessments, and FRANCE noted efforts to undertake vulnerability assessments of French coastal zones.
BARBADOS, for AOSIS, called for further implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;OMAN and QATAR underscored the importance of implementing UNFCCC Article 4.8 (adverse effects) with respect to response measures.
KIRIBATI and FIJI stressed that adaptation measures should respond only to the adverse impacts of climate change, and not to the adverse impacts of mitigation measures.
FIJI urged the international community to be sympathetic to the needs of SIDS.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;SOUTH AFRICA called for sustained financial support for developing countries to implement adaptation plans and, with INDONESIA, said these should be integrated into development plans.
ICELAND, NORWAY and FINLAND pointed to the Arctic assessment of climate change, which shows that the Arctic climate is warming rapidly.
TANZANIA and MALI prioritized the transfer of adaptation-related technology.
SAUDI ARABIA and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC said technological change requires political will to remove the barriers that prevent use and diffusion of new technologies.
TUNISIA and the US outlined national actions to address climate change.
UKRAINE and OMAN noted their recent ratifications of the Protocol.
JAPAN noted a paradigm shift in the awareness of its citizens, following recent extreme weather events in Japan.
QATAR, for the G-77/China, underscored that responsibility for reducing emissions falls on developed countries.
BULGARIA drew attention to her country ef bf bds ef bf bdGreen Investment Scheme, ef bf bd an instrument that ensures that Bulgaria 's revenue from selling surplus emissions credits is earmarked for green investments.
On reporting the activities of the ten-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action (BPOA+10), the World Conference on Disaster Reduction (WCDR) and CSD processes to the UNFCCC, the US suggested only reporting to SBSTA-23 and only on CSD activities.
AOSIS and the EU insisted on keeping provisions on reporting on the relevant processes to COP-11 and referring to the submissions of Parties regarding activities relevant to these processes contained in UNFCCC miscellaneous documents.
KUWAIT and EGYPT announced their imminent ratifications of the Protocol.
BANGLADESH and TUNISIA noted efforts to move away from carbon-intensive development paths.
