class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; Hungary and Japan asked what was meant by differentiation among developing countries, and Fernando Tudela replied that if a country can do more to reduce emissions then it should do so, thus avoiding a 93race to the bottom.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;The Cook Islands and Indonesia raised issues about the future role of the CDM and Joint Implementation (JI), and Luxembourg, for the EU, asked Brazil about its renewables programme.
While the Kyoto Protocol requires Parties to begin considering the post-2012 period by 2005, many developing countries have objected in the past to attempts to expand the group of nations that have binding emissions targets from Annex I Parties into the ranks of the Group of 77 and China (G-77/China).
 David Warrilow, on behalf of the European Union (EU), underscored positive feedback and possible catastrophic impacts as drivers for the EU 92s proposal to limit warming to less than 2˚C, emphasizing that the challenge is to meet growing demand for energy while reducing emissions.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;This session, which took place on Monday afternoon, included speeches from Tuvalu, Albania, the Republic of Korea and the Netherlands, as well as a question-and-answer session.
Pakistan highlighted the role of renewable energy sources in economic empowerment of the poor and Samoa stressed the importance of renewable energy technology transfer.
Egypt, the Russian Federation, Monaco and others underscored problems with the CDM, including its complexity.
Responding to Nigeria, the UK, Algeria and Hungary on economic diversification, Fareed Al-Asaly said Saudi Arabia is focusing its economic diversification efforts on the petrochemical sector, while in terms of adaptation, the emphasis is on coastal zone management.
Responding to a question from Germany on the inclusion of the private sector in reducing carbon emissions, Mutsuyoshi Nishimura explained about Japan 92s voluntary programme and Norine Smith reported on Canada 92s consultation with large emitters, which resulted in an emissions intensity approach.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;On Tuesday afternoon, delegates heard presentations from representatives of Peru, Mali and Saudi Arabia, and engaged in a question-and-answer session.
 Namibia, Burkina Faso, Togo and others expressed interest in Mali 92s experiences with national monitoring plans and meteorological information systems, and raised the idea of turning them into a regional programme.
Egypt and Malaysia stressed the importance of technology transfer and the role of the private sector in technology transfer.
 Japan welcomed China 92s emphasis on energy savings and efficiency, asked for details on how China plans to achieve these, and offered technology cooperation.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;The first session, held on Monday morning, 16 May, involved presentations by government experts from China, Brazil, Switzerland and the UK, followed by an interactive question-and-answer session.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;On Tuesday morning, 17 May, delegates heard presentations from government experts from Papua New Guinea, Mexico, Australia and France, and engaged in a question-and-answer session.
Responding to a question from Hungary on long-term goals, Helen Plume indicated that New Zealand has not adopted a long-term global warming target, but accepted that international consensus on such a target would provide greater certainty for the business sector.
Responding to a question from Pakistan, Karsten Sach highlighted the value of networking to promote renewable energy, and agreed with Kenya on the need to build capacity for Africa to participate more effectively in the CDM.
Luxembourg, on behalf of the EU, identified a 93large consensus 94 among delegations on the common challenges ahead.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; Luxembourg, on behalf of the EU, supported seeking synergies between combating climate change and sustainable development objectives, and said EU Heads of State had agreed to restrict warming to within the 2˚C threshold.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;This session, held early Monday afternoon, involved presentations from South Africa, Norway, the European Commission and the US, followed by a question-and-answer session.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;On Tuesday morning, delegates heard presentations from New Zealand, Germany, Argentina and Finland, and engaged in a question-and-answer session.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;This session, which was held late Monday afternoon, included presentations from Canada, Japan, Morocco and India, as well as a question-and-answer session.
Japan and Bangladesh emphasized the need to enhance monitoring and assessment of climate impacts and vulnerability.
