This group was co-chaired by Bubu Jallow (the Gambia) and Ricardo Moita (Portugal).
CANADA commended the LEG 92s work, and TANZANIA, for the LDCs, proposed extending the LEG 92s mandate to support the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action (NAPAs).
On guidance to the GEF, LDCs, SAMOA and MALAWI expressed concern over co-financing requirements, noting that decision 6/CP.9 (guidance on the operation of the LDC Fund) provides for full funding of NAPAs.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN stressed the importance of fostering multilateral cooperation on mitigation initiatives.
The EU, with the COOK ISLANDS, said barriers to the uptake of small-scale renewable energy need to be addressed further.
The Co-Chairs tabled draft conclusions, and MALAYSIA, for the G-77/China, circulated a draft decision and a position paper.
Delegates disputed procedural matters, including which text to begin discussing, with several Annex I Parties preferring to discuss the Co-Chairs 92 draft conclusions paragraph-by-paragraph, and the G-77/CHINA stating that the draft conclusions do not reflect the G-77/China ef bf bds concerns.
A contact group on the issue, co-chaired by Philip Gwage (Uganda) and David Warrilow (UK), was established.
JAPAN emphasized the need to prioritize energy projects and, with the EU, the need for transparency.
The EU and SWITZERLAND noted the importance of addressing the implications of CDM activities for the achievement of objectives of other multilateral environmental agreements.
The EU, CANADA and JAPAN stated that Article 2.3 is sufficiently reflected in decision 5/CP.7.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;The EU and ARGENTINA said adaptation should be included in sustainable development plans.
JAPAN and the EU stressed the need to balance adaptation and mitigation, while INDIA said focus should be on adaptation.
Regarding regional workshops, AOSIS underlined the need for a SIDS workshop.
The US and others requested information on how this workshop would differ from other workshops proposed in Uruguay and Japan.
Co-Chairs Paul Watkinson and Samuel Adejuwon reviewed an amendment from the EU and a draft decision text proposed by the G-77/China.
ARGENTINA, CHINA and others called for transfer of adaptation technology, with GHANA asking for development of indigenous technologies, and INDIA for recognition of traditional knowledge.
On timing of submission of national communications after the initial disbursement of funds, the G-77/CHINA stressed that this should occur within five years of disbursement, while the EU preferred three years.
JAMAICA, for the G-77/China, said the SBSTA in-session workshop held on 8 December highlighted the urgency for action to address adaptation.
SUDAN, for the Africa Group, and ARGENTINA said adaptation is a global priority.
On ways to build adaptive capacity, NICARAGUA pointed to participatory processes that include local communities and technical experts, and CHINA urged mobilization of funds and technology transfer from developed countries.
