Harald Dovland (Norway) and Mamadou Honadia (Burkina Faso) will co-chair a contact group.
JAPAN suggested taking into account adjustments and ef bf bdconservativeness factors ef bf bd already applied to LULUCF reporting and, with the EU, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, called for a simple, effective and comparable approach.
The G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and others called for an action-oriented programme of work as opposed to continuing assessments.
NEPAL and CAMBODIA raised the issue of non-renewable biomass, while BRAZIL and AOSIS underscored the need to maintain CDM 92s environmental integrity.
Tanzania, for the AFRICA GROUP, called for measures to improve African participation in the CDM, such as channeling CDM proceeds to capacity building in the region.
The UK, CANADA and AUSTRALIA opposed this and stressed the need to distinguish sinks in the reporting to ensure transparency and comparability.
AUSTRALIA, with TUVALU, called for a focus on emissions and removals instead of on stock changes.
David Brackett (Canada) and Andr e9 Corr eaa do Lago (Brazil) will co-chair a contact group.
Samoa, for the LDCs, said the LEG ef bf bds mandate should be three years, while the EU, US, JAPAN and others preferred two years.
CANADA, SWITZERLAND and other Parties called for broad participation, while ZIMBABWE and others noted that Article 3.9 refers specifically to Annex I countries.
CHINA suggested an Ad Hoc Working Group, and TUVALU called for a world summit on climate change.
ef bf bd The G-77/CHINA presented a draft decision to initiate discussions on an amendment to Annex B. David Drake (Canada) and Alf Wills (South Africa) will co-chair a contact group.
BRAZIL supported exploring incentives for addressing sustainable development and, with TUVALU and others, opposed opening up the Marrakesh Accords.
Jamaica, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored common but differentiated responsibilities in addressing climate change and sustainable development.
 Co-Chairs Holger Liptow (Germany) and Carlos Fuller (Belize) asked participants to provide initial thoughts on this issue.
The US, EU and JAPAN supported adopting the 2006 Work Plan of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer (EGTT) as proposed, while Malaysia and Ghana, both speaking for the G-77/CHINA, suggested some additions.
The EU introduced a request by Italy to reconsider its assigned amount for forest management (FCCC/KP/CMP/2005/MISC.2).
China, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored clear guidelines for 93real and measurable 94 reductions.
Daniela Stoytcheva (Bulgaria) will chair a contact group on JI, and Marcia Levaggi (Argentina) will hold consultations on membership of the Supervisory Committee.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;India, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted recent accomplishments, including the awarding of the first certified emissions reductions (CERs).
COLOMBIA and GHANA drew attention to CDM potential in the transport sector.
SAUDI ARABIA insisted on linking both topics, while the EU questioned the rationale for considering an amendment now when prompt operationalization of the compliance mechanism is essential for implementing the Protocol and CDM.
