CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA expressed concern about the recent increase in greenhouse gas emissions by developed countries.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, SWITZERLAND and others highlighted a sectoral approach and a focus on "key areas."
Kok Seng Yap (Malaysia) and Toshiyuki Sakamoto (Japan) will co-chair a contact group.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that a contact group was needed to develop more guidance to the GEF, while the EU said discussion on the GEF review should take place under the agenda item on the report by the GEF.
Joyceline Goco (Philippines) and Anders Turesson (Sweden) will consult informally.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, the EU and G-77/CHINA, requested removing agenda item 11(a) relating to small island developing States (SIDS).
Since Libya is not yet a Party to the Kyoto Protocol, SBSTA Vice-Chair Amjad Abdulla (Maldives) was invited to chair SBSTA for Protocol-related agenda items.
Regarding the provisional agenda, the UK, for the EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, objected to the inclusion of agenda item 10 on Article 2.3 (response measures) on the grounds that it is addressed elsewhere.
Jamaica, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at the GEF resource allocation framework.
The UK, for the EU, called for an 93open mind 94 and 93creative and innovative ways 94 to address climate change after 2012.
Kenya, for the AFRICA GROUP, noted an inadequate commitment on capacity building, while Bangladesh, on behalf of the LDCs, highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC, Adaptation and Special Climate Change Funds.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt; Tuvalu, speaking for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES (AOSIS), called for future commitments under Article 3.9, and said efforts to streamline CDM should not compromise its environmental integrity.
Audun Rosland (Norway) and Newton Paciornik (Brazil) will co-chair a contact group.
The EU and JAPAN supported the proposal, while the US expressed concern about eliminating in-country in-depth reviews.
Emily Ojoo-Massawa (Kenya) and Dimitrios Lalas (Greece) will co-chair a contact group.
On the agenda, the EU and AUSTRALIA questioned the need to include a sub-item requested by Saudi Arabia on the Buenos Aires programme of work on adaptation and response measures.
Samoa, for the G-77/CHINA, said many adaptation projects are at a mature stage for implementation and depend only on funding.
AOSIS, SUDAN, YEMEN and others stressed the need to be action-oriented.
SAUDI ARABIA, with NIGERIA and KUWAIT but opposed by ARGENTINA, CHILE and others, called for consideration of adaptation to response measures and inclusion of economic diversification in the programme of work.
JAPAN proposed a focus on methodologies and impact assessments and the US suggested taking stock of existing efforts and engaging experts.
CANADA, supported by PERU and others, said that the programme of work and SBI decisions to operationalize adaptation funding represent an 93adaptation package, 94 and that it views a COP decision endorsing a strong programme of work to be a goal of this session.
BANGLADESH and the US said this information should be used when donors assess the needs of non-Annex I countries.
