The US, CANADA, INDIA and others objected to EU-proposed text linking climate change and sea-level rise to the Millennium Review in September 2005.
CHINA expressed an interest in Japan 92s programme, tax incentive policies, and Germany 92s job creation.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, objected to a reference to building on SBI guidance in a request to the Bureau of COP 10 to participate in finalizing details of the high-level segments at COP 11 and COP/MOP 1.
The EU, with AOSIS, NORWAY, the AFRICA GROUP and JAPAN, supported the IPCC request.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;Samoa, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, called for specific, action-oriented language.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the COOK ISLANDS, called for reference to the most vulnerable Parties.
The EU, with CANADA and the US, proposed using language from Decision 1/CP.10.
SENEGAL, supported by MICRONESIA, called for reference to capacity building.
The EU, US, CANADA, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA proposed text stating that non-Annex I Parties would make all efforts to submit their second and, where appropriate, third national communications, within four years of the initial financing, on an agreed full cost basis 93for the three year project preparation period.
The EU, opposed by the US, reiterated that the budget should be fixed in Euros.
Nigeria, for the G-77/CHINA, said the documents must reference funding for four annual meetings of each expert group, as mandated by the COP.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed requesting the Secretariat to prepare a concise report of what has been done to date.
CHINA and the US preferred limiting invitations for submissions to Parties, while the EU favored also inviting submissions from admitted observers and relevant intergovernmental organizations.
On the draft recommendations of the SBI to COP 11, a paragraph proposed earlier by the EU on cooperation and communication with other relevant international organizations, was opposed by the US.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, introduced a reference to the biennium budget document (FCCC/SBI/2005/8).
