NORWAY stressed challenges in the transport sector and, with the EU, highlighted the co-benefits of mitigation measures.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, added a request that the host country facilitate the issuance of visas for COP 11 and the COP/MOP 1.
NORWAY and the EU opposed the deletion.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;  Lu eds Cifuentes, Catholic University of Chile, presented on the US EPA 92s Integrated Environment Strategies (IES) Programme, which aims to identify integrated strategies and measures that address greenhouse gas abatement and local air pollution.
Nigeria, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that the frequency of expert group meetings supported by core funding must be consistent with COP decision 4/CP.7.
The EU, CANADA, SOUTH AFRICA and others, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported the proposed budget, given increased requirements due to the Kyoto Protocol ef bf bds entry into force.
 Following a statement by Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, referencing decisions 2/CP.7 and 2/CP.10 on capacity building, the Chair noted the importance of commitments to review the capacity building framework and receive a report from GEF at the next session.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;  Tuvalu, for AOSIS, called for a special track for SIDS to address urgent needs, and said the programme should not include matters relating to mitigation.
Sudan, on behalf of the AFRICA GROUP, cautioned that a sectoral approach may marginalize local knowledge and called for a thematic and livelihoods approach.
Marjorie Pyoos (South Africa) and James Shevlin (Australia) will convene consultations.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;  Mitsutsune Yamaguchi, Teikyo University, reported on efficiency gains in Japan 92s iron and steel sector, adding that if this sector in China and Russia achieved the same energy intensity, total global emissions would fall one percent.
 Following further debate on Saudi Arabia 92s proposal to add agenda items on implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 (FCCC/SBI/2005/1/Add.2), Chair Becker proposed that those items and a G-77/China proposed item on capacity building be included under Other Matters.
The EU, supported by the US, amended a paragraph on work with other international organizations, specifying that cooperation and communication should be focused and add value.
JAPAN and SWITZERLAND added that efforts should be conducted within available resources.
  Kok Seng Yap (Malaysia) and Toshiyuki Sakamoto (Japan) facilitated this in-session SBSTA workshop, which focused on factors that affect technology innovation, deployment and diffusion, and socioeconomic aspects of mitigation, including poverty reduction and economic impacts.
Many parties, including the EU, NORWAY, CANADA, JAPAN and Bangladesh, on behalf of the LDC GROUP, said they saw many positive aspects in the proposed texts.
On objectives of the work programme, the G-77/CHINA, with AOSIS, called for action-oriented, short- and long-term measures, and a focus on the most vulnerable.
The EU, US, and NEW ZEALAND favored improved understanding and cooperation.
On the structure of the work programme, the EU, US, and CANADA proposed taking a sectoral approach, while the G-77/CHINA, AOSIS, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AFRICA GROUP and JAPAN preferred a broader approach, including a livelihoods approach.
Regarding modalities, the G-77/CHINA and AOSIS called for a working group to advance work and ensure follow-up.
