Several countries noted regional diversity, with Niger and Kiribati stressing subregional assessment and India underlining the need to cover mountains and glaciers.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, called for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation, scaling up of funding, and adequate and predictable financial resources.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and INDIA said they would allow provision of supplementary information based on the documents.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, called for the establishment of a decision-making framework at COP-5.
On achieving QELROs, the PHILIPPINES, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL called for focusing on commitments, with the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noting that there is no place for “minimum expectations” in a legally binding agreement.
 stating that e2 80 9ca combination of adaptation and substantial, sustained reductions in GHG emissions can limit climate change risks, e2 80 9d Saudi Arabia, supported by El Salvador, proposed either moving the word e2 80 9csubstantial e2 80 9d to qualify both adaptation and emission reductions, or reverting to WGII SPM language.
Benin, for the LDCs, supported by Barbados, Jamaica, the Federated States of Micronesia, Brazil, Zambia and Trinidad and Tobago expressed concern over including CCS under the CDM.
Discussion also took place on the role of low-carbon development strategies and plans, with the EU and others highlighting their importance, and the G-77/China stating that they should not be a pre-condition for support or recognition of NAMAs.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Iraq, Algeria, Syria, Egypt, Iran and Iraq, strongly objected to applying the IPCC Principles and Procedures, noting their objection was scientific in nature and bemoaned the bias they perceived.
CANADA suggested inviting the Group on Earth Observations  to prioritize work on climate monitoring, and the US proposed requesting GCOS and GEO to coordinate their work.
CHINA and INDIA emphasized that the Chairs’ proposal for substantive discussions on legal matters is outside the mandate of the AWG-KP.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the AFRICAN GROUP said the focus should be interlinkages among all PAWP items.
JAPAN, supported by the US and others, but opposed by Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed inviting presentations from the UN Development Programme and from any other interested party or organization, on experiences of monitoring and evaluation within countries.
VENEZUELA and BURKINA FASO expressed concern about a tandem review process where both SBSTA and SBI review the joint contact groups’ guidelines and decisions.
Bhutan and Nepal called attention to the specific vulnerabilities of ecosystems in mountainous countries.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT supported revising the non-paper and adding attributions.
On factoring out, BRAZIL, for the G-77/China, supported by the EU, said this reflected principles agreed in the Marrakesh Accords and needs to be addressed before the second commitment period.
INDIA, with SAUDI ARABIA, cautioned against revising the principles of the Convention.
Cuba, supported by Belgium, said cross-cutting issues should be well integrated into the Synthesis Report.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, requested a workshop on finance needs of developing countries.
On translating the TEP into effective actions on the ground, the US, with the EU and Australia, said the TEP should evolve, and be regularly reviewed and improved.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed the need to include all elements of party submissions in revised documents, and underscored that the group would only accept an omnibus decision with “all items in an integrated structure.”
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the US, highlighted the need to reflect Protocol Article 8  in the provision.
Barbados, for AOSIS, cautioned against reopening the GCF governing instrument.
Belgium, the Maldives, Brazil, Sweden, Norway, Niger, Sudan and Argentina supported additional hires, while France, Canada and the US questioned Secretary Christ’s request for staff with scientific backgrounds, noting that the role of the Secretariat is meant to be administrative.
Malaysia and Pakistan suggested analyzing the implications of Annex I countries’ different emissions targets for non-Annex I parties.
The EU and Japan called for further exploration of solutions that would provide sufficient incentives for mitigation but not for increased production.
CHINA stressed the importance of the forum to minimize or prevent the negative impacts of response measures, and expressed concern with the inclusion of aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Switzerland, Japan, Canada and others stressed that quantifying the concept of “supplementarity” is not necessary.
The EU and US noted linkages with the transparency framework.
On   , China, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested developed countries support developing countries’ capacity-building, based on country needs.
 The US, supported by CANADA, called for a decision on the rules of procedure.
CHILE, for Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama and Peru, noted changing national circumstances and the need for incentives for developing countries to move to a low-carbon growth model.
She said the EU had expressed interest in a possible qualitative ceiling, and reported that India and the US were conducting consultations on fungibility, AAs and the composition of the Executive Board.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, opposed by the EU, suggested new headings on information related to transfer of technology and additional financial resources, and highlighted their textual proposal on information on implementation of Protocol Article 3.14.
Opposed by the EU, the US called for text clarifying that participation includes a physical presence, and suggested reviewing the issue at SBI-22.
SAUDI ARABIA and NORWAY cautioned against delaying necessary decisions on the CDM.
AOSIS, with the African Group, highlighted the need for adaptation surcharges to be assessed against all the Protocol mechanisms.
 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, supported by ZIMBABWE, called for an addendum to the SAR noting SBSTA’s comments.
Parties established a spin-off group on institutional arrangements, and Canada and the G-77/China will report to the facilitated group.
Japan suggested broadening the scope of developed countries and differentiating among developing countries with the possibility of graduation, while Brazil, for the G-77/China, firmly rejected any proposals for differentiation among non-Annex I parties.
However, Colombia, Saudi Arabia and some other developing countries opposed giving preference to LDCs, SIDS and Africa, especially regarding methodologies, and called for equal treatment for all non-Annex I countries with few CDM projects.
AUSTRALIA supported working together on new market mechanisms and PAPUA NEW GUINEA said market mechanisms need to have strong environmental integrity.
Grenada for AOSIS also expressed satisfaction with the outcome.
The US, opposed by the EU, called for including labor, agriculture, and quasi-governmental entities.
The EU, with the US, said that not all issues would need to go through a facilitative process.
Algeria, for the African Group, thanked the thousands of people who have worked over the last two years to make Copenhagen a success.
The US expressed disappointment that the G-77/China position paper  had just emerged as a miscellaneous 
Switzerland, Germany, Japan and others objected to this inclusion, noting it was premature to add such language before a decision was reached on the TGICA’s mandate.
 The US asked for confirmation that the draft conclusions had been agreed, and the G-77/CHINA expressed that without agreement on the decision, the informally agreed draft conclusions remain unapproved as well.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized the Group’s desire for legally binding targets from the AWG-KP in Copenhagen.
She cautioned, with Algeria, for the Arab Group, against precluding the legal form of the new agreement.
HUNGARY announced the establishment of a new negotiating group - the "Central Group Eleven," comprising various Central and Eastern European countries - and expressed a preference for the establishment of a "consultative process."
BRAZIL and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION shared their views on potential areas for synergies among various processes under the Convention to facilitate the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasizing the need for closer cooperation between bodies dealing with adaptation, and research and systematic observation under the Convention.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of clarity and predictability in the negotiation process, and asked that the reflection note be updated with suggestions that are still missing.
The EU said developing draft decision text in Panama is key for a successful outcome in Durban and called for a comprehensive legally-binding framework that engages all parties.
Zambia supported the texts as a building block towards an agreement in South Africa.
CHINA opposed a US proposal that CRF tables contain key source categories, proposing that uncertainties cover all categories.
BANGLADESH called for mention of special treatment of LDCs and SIDS as set out under the Convention and BAP.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed a number of changes and insertions to the table, noting these were based on language agreed under the Paris Agreement.
Reference was also included on the challenges related to implementation, including those of energy costs, international competition, and depreciation of assets, as suggested by Egypt, and to the potential for maximizing co-benefits, as proposed by Germany.
IRAN said the EU proposal was premature and SAUDI ARABIA urged that AGBM complete a negotiating text and not leave work for the Chair.
On water shortages, Zimbabwe, supported by Sudan and Egypt, suggested removing language on  93complex water governance.
India suggested deleting the proposals on common mitigation frameworks, with the G-77/China noting that the proposals create difficulties for progress in other areas.
Describing the Paris Agreement as an enhanced regime guided by equity and CBDR, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, outlined as core elements of the outcome, inter alia, finance, including the full operationalization of Paris Agreement Article 9.5 .
SWEDEN urged delegates to work to increase awareness, understanding and support for change and, with FINLAND, applauded the role of NGOs in the environmental agenda.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, emphasized the group’s commitment to the fulfillment of the BAP and finding appropriate solutions to issues not addressed in Cancun.
Ecuador, for ALBA, highlighted that the future of the Durban Platform is intertwined with the adoption in Doha of ambitious legally-binding commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US called for initiating a spin-off group to carry out technical work on this item by the end of this session, with NORWAY proposing technical discussions in small group settings to develop proposals.
The US, with CANADA, also expressed frustration at the rate of progress, and indicated support for continuing work towards resolving the G-77/China 92s concern about the situation.
 The Gambia, for LDCs, urged those Annex I parties that have not done so to submit their QELROs.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for action to raise ambition in the context of the long-term goal.
SPECIFIC NEEDS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS OF THE LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES: On 10 March, Mamadou Honadia, Coordinator, National Council for Environmental Management, Burkina Faso, outlined the specific needs and special situations of the LDCs.
SOUTH AFRICA suggested that a mid-term review would act as an “early warning system.” NEW ZEALAND said that science would give a picture of the global state of action required and thus there is a need for reflection on actions by all countries.
On lessons learned, FINLAND, with CANADA, underscored good working relationships between all partners and stakeholders in implementing climate change policies.
The US, supported by Colombia, proposed including the project-based mechanisms in a table or matrix to compare proposals and criteria for market mechanisms.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Malaysia, for the LMDCs, emphasized work on the 2018 facilitative dialogue.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation.
ZAMBIA noted these proposals reflect the group’s consensus but explained the LDCs may still make additions.
China, Japan and Chile stressed the importance of Article 8 ERT reports, while Australia said these should be the only way for the process to be triggered.
SOUTH AFRICA called for a differentiated approach to compliance, including a system that is “preventative and cooperative.” c2 a0 BOLIVIA suggested the establishment of an international climate justice tribunal.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed support for the AWG-LCA Chair’s work plan, called for identifying what has been agreed at previous COPs and stated that discussions on all topics must be completed and not simply transferred to different bodies.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for building on the Cancun Agreements, including developing strong outcomes on REDD+.
COLOMBIA stressed referencing leadership of developed countries under the Convention, with BRAZIL noting confusion in the text between mobilization of finance and support for developing countries.
On project monitoring, BOLIVIA questioned how to estimate and control leakage, and URUGUAY noted that there is a need to minimize negative leakage.
MICRONESIA, with the BAHAMAS, highlighted urgency.
The EU and the US sought intensification of the process, in particular through technical workshops.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States , and South Africa lamented that the procedures of accreditation remain too complex.
The US and Japan recommended adoption of guidelines for national systems at COP-6.
Brazil, with China and Thailand, strongly objected to a US proposal that made reference to the technology transfer and the CDM, opposing attempts to link technology transfer under the UNFCCC to the Protocol.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said a successful termination of the AWG-LCA requires agreement on comparable targets and common accounting rules to ensure transparency and coherence among developed countries.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, summarized workshops held 25 and 26 February 1996, on guidelines and the initial communications of non-Annex I Parties.
While the US, Canada and others sought stronger language on developing country action/commitments, the G-77/China opposed this, and instead sought to place the focus on language dealing with Annex I commitments.
 Responding to questions from NORWAY, BARBADOS, the EU, SWITZERLAND and LIBYA, Haites explained that the Secretariat ef bf bds report uses carbon capture and storage investment projections from the International Energy Agency  and agreed that a global carbon price would help in creating a global market for new technologies.
In the spirit of compromise, India withdrew two of its nominations , while Tanzania withdrew one .
Italy and Spain said the items should be consistent with the text.
Peru, for AILAC, requested the COP report reflect the group’s position that the special circumstances of all developing countries should be taken into account.
Iran asked for inclusion of such projects in the CDM, while China said  93the door should be left open 94 for this.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, said that the IPCC TAR should inform discussions on the development of the climate regime.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, discussed their proposed institutional arrangements, including a displacement facility and a technical panel.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed satisfaction with the finalization of the gender action plan, and noted this is a strong outcome for women and the climate.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted IPCC AR5, stressing the need for high mitigation ambition.
China, Saudi Arabia, Japan, the Russian Federation, Brazil and Switzerland opposed this division.
On the CDM, COSTA RICA, BOLIVIA and SENEGAL, opposed by IRELAND and AUSTRIA, favored including sinks in the CDM.
On supplementarity, the EU, G-77/China and Hungary emphasized domestic action as the primary means to fulfill commitments.
The EU, CANADA and MICRONESIA noted the usefulness of the compilation and synthesis report in better understanding the difficulties faced by non-Annex I Parties.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, inserted language indicating that NDCs can include co-benefits resulting from adaptation and economic diversification.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, called for: a stricter compliance regime; clear comparability of efforts; and consideration of limits to offsetting.
MALAYSIA and PAKISTAN suggested analyzing the implications of Annex I countries’ different emissions targets for non-Annex I parties.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed satisfaction with the finalization of the gender action plan, and noted this is a strong outcome for women and the climate.
Agreeing with Ireland, the Czech Republic pointed out that countries have invested considerable time and effort in developing different models, and should not be asked to change them.
During the SBI closing plenary on 4 December, Saudi Arabia, supported by the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, noted that the issue had been pending for “a very long time” but requested that reference linking a workshop on 1/CP.10 to a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 be deleted.
 From 9-10 November 2010, ministers and representatives from 35 countries met in New Delhi, India, for a dialogue “Climate Change: Technology Mechanism.” The meeting was hosted jointly by India and Mexico.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, suggested a 5% share of proceeds go towards adaptation.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented the lack of urgency toward addressing the likely 3-4°C warming, and underlined that although the Cancun Agreements represented a step forward, they still lacked scope, substance and ambition.
LATVIA supported ROMANIA and POLAND in stressing the need for comparability of methodologies.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and the NETHERLANDS urged Parties not to wait for ratification before starting to implement actions to address climate change.
Australia, Japan, India, the EU, New Zealand and others supported the IPCC request, while Saudi Arabia and China suggested that the IPCC Report could be taken up at COP 14.
The EU, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA and others, indicated that it was not necessary to include a list of comparability criteria in the outcome.
 Political tensions were evident from the strong opposition by China and Saudi Arabia on tables linking climate change impacts to greenhouse gas concentration levels and timelines, which, in the end, were not included in the final SPM.
 Majid Al Suwaidi, the United Arab Emirates , described his country e2 80 99s green economy initiative, highlighting the importance of CCS as the UAE diversifies its economy and invests in energy-intensive activities.
Supported by INDONESIA and CANADA, she called on SBSTA to request the Secretariat to prepare a paper on work under Article 6 for consideration at SBSTA-9.
CHINA underlined the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and SENEGAL stressed the value of NAPAs and called for greater commitment to the LDC Fund.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined that work on pre-2020 mitigation provides additional opportunities to close the ambition gap but is not an alternative to commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and the AWG-LCA.
The PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, MEXICO, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND called for discussion on the use of the words “ensure” and “promote” throughout the text.
Brazil and India also said that food security and poverty eradication are important elements that should remain, and, with China, called for specifying that poverty eradication relates to developing countries.
IRAN and the US called for the establishment of an information center/clearinghouse for technology transfer.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for more contributions to the LDC Fund and encouraged the GEF to provide support for other elements of the LDC work programme.
On further work for the APA, Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested noting that the APA will require additional time for work in 2017.
Monaco, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , highlighted the importance of progress on technical issues, such as LULUCF, the transformation of emission reduction pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives , carry-over of surplus assigned amount units , and the flexibility mechanisms.
The G-77/China, with Brazil, called for addressing capacity building in a stand-alone manner and through recognition of the issue under other building blocks.
 : Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the negotiations to be party-driven, transparent and inclusive.
The NETHERLANDS noted that the SBSTA refers to the G-77/China document as the basis for adoption, whereas this proposal refers to it as the basis for implementation.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and on Annex I parties to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 45% below 1990 levels by 2020 and at least 95% below 1990 levels by 2050.
CANADA, ITALY, the EU, ZIMBABWE, SLOVENIA, the PHILIPPINES and CHILE supported a standing committee.
CHINA and JAPAN agreed to discuss this issue informally, in order to reach resolution before the SBSTA plenary on Thursday, 12 June.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Oman and the EU, and opposed by Canada, requested the exclusion of a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts in relation to cleaner energy exports.
Noting consensus is needed for adopting conclusions, Ecuador, for the G-77/China, stated that this issue deserves consideration.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged agreement on LULUCF accounting rules, flexible mechanisms, length of commitment period after 2012, transformation of pledges into QELROs and the basket of gases.
However, many, including the G-77/China, LDCs and the African Group, stressed that this non-paper cannot serve as basis for further discussions as it does not fully reflect their views.
Tuvalu, the EU, China, Belarus, Saudi Arabia and others urged continuing consultations.
On reporting on technology transfer and financial assistance, CANADA, with the US, said exhaustive reporting on all areas related to climate change, including reporting on private and public technology transfer, is impractical and beyond the means of most Parties’ budgets.
On differentiation, INDIA, ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA, JORDAN, CUBA and BOLIVIA called for reference to CBDR, principles and provisions of the Convention, or its Article 4 .
BRAZIL preferred no change in greenhouse gases and suggested that adding new gases that are reported but not accounted for may result in a “loophole.” AUSTRALIA, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and SWITZERLAND supported estimating and reporting new greenhouse gases.
The US and EU supported the Colombian tonne-year accounting approach.
The text also included a compromise between the EU, US and others that recognized the methodological difficulties and limited availability of data for distinguishing between domestic and international fuel consumption.
India, the African Group, China and AOSIS stated that the private sector can play only a limited role.
On support for the NAP process through contributions to the LDCF and the Special Climate Change Fund, China, supported by India and Malaysia, proposed deleting language inviting “parties that may make voluntary financial contributions” to provide such support.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested paying attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of parties.
 On scope and key issues, a number of countries, including Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the nationally-determined nature of NDCs.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested sub-elements for environmental integrity on adverse impacts for environment, social integrity, and human rights.
Japan, the UK, Argentina and Germany, opposed by Norway, supported producing a single methodology report instead of a series.
The EU and SWITZERLAND said the CDM should commence immediately after COP-6 on a permanent rather than interim basis.
Saudi Arabia stressed the need for text on response measures that reflects progress across all areas of the negotiations and, supported by Iraq, expressed concern that response measures have not received as much attention as mitigation under the AWG-LCA.
Alberto Pedro D’Alotto, Argentina, on behalf of the G-77/China, described the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol as a cornerstone of efforts to address climate change, adding that non-Annex I parties also need to join these efforts with comparable commitments.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized the need to “leave no PAWP agenda item behind,” and to change the mode of work in discussions on accounting of financial resources.
On a preambular paragraph regarding the ultimate objective of the Convention requiring “strengthening the multilateral, rules-based regime” and implementation of existing commitments, the African Group, supported by Pakistan and opposed by the EU, preferred “multilateral, rules-based regime under the Convention.”
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that the final report of the GEF was still being awaited, to allow full consideration of items under the agenda item, which is closely related to the provision of financial resources.
While acknowledging the need to revise guidelines for national communications, SIERRA LEONE stressed that less rigid criteria should apply to the LDCs.
PAKISTAN called for the resolution of the issue to allow Turkey to participate in the process.
Tuvalu, on behalf of the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , highlighted adaptation and the needs of small island developing States .
The EU, COSTA RICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, and BRAZIL welcomed the operationalization of the platform, with the EU indicating readiness to consider establishing a facilitative working group and COSTA RICA asking for balanced representation at the first multi-stakeholder workshop.
The Netherlands, the UK and Mexico supported analyzing development levels, with the Netherlands suggesting the wording “between and within developing countries” and Mexico proposing paying attention to the least developed countries.
In a paragraph concerning the impact of Annex I commitments on developing countries, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, added references to burden sharing for all Parties and relevant studies.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed support for an eight-year second commitment period, emphasizing the mid-term review of QELROs and the need to maintain a flexible process.
On bunker fuels, Spain, for the EU, Australia, Switzerland, the Gambia, Norway and others, called for consideration of this issue, with Norway adding that the new submission by the Cook Islands  could be used to bridge the gaps in the issue of bunker fuels.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said examination of the term "developing countries" was not necessary.
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Sudan called for its retention.
The G-77/China called for a contact group to develop more guidance to the GEF, while the EU said the GEF review should be discussed under the agenda item on the report of the GEF.
With Tuvalu, for the LDCs, he suggested addressing international transport.
The US and Canada suggested postponing consideration of the review of guidelines on national communications until SB-14.
Opposed by the EU and the US, Mexico, with Bangladesh, supported conducting, and offered to host, regional and sub-regional TEMs, with Brazil willing to explore this idea.
Egypt, supporting Mali, proposed language calling for diversity and broadened representation in the TSUs.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, reminded parties that Decision 1/CP.16  recognizes the need for a longer time frame for the peaking of GHG emissions in developing countries.
On Establishment, Structure and Functions, the US, with AUSTRALIA, said the text should emphasize the two-branch structure.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed the need to learn from historic mistakes so that they do not get repeated in the future.
MEXICO suggested the development of assessment criteria, and, opposed by UGANDA, suggested a step-by-step process for identifying spillover effects.
On the election of the Board, SAMOA, with the EU and BULGARIA, called for consideration of gender balance.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS opposed funding national communications through the GEF Resource Allocation Framework.
The US stated that current modeling remains highly uncertain, and CANADA and AUSTRALIA stressed the importance of data availability.
The US, supported by Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands, Japan, Germany and Belgium, proposed alternative language encouraging the Secretariat and the TSUs to engage in dialogue on respective roles and responsibilities and to periodically report on this matter to the Panel.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said parties should not focus on a particular option or sector.
Canada noted that the section on flooded lands represented a prudent compromise, while the US cautioned against further changes to the document, stating that the 2006 Guidelines were designed as a comprehensive package and underscoring the danger of deleting sections or relegating them to appendices.
Venezuela, Kuwait, Colombia, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iran, China and Zaire preferred Alternative B, which ensures that substantive decisions, including the adoption of protocols, are taken by consensus.
The US explained that annual reports include information on both inventories and the assigned amount and, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that first-order problems only refer to the former.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that agreement on finance could unlock progress on other issues and called for a comprehensive package.
The US, opposed by the G-77/China, identified the need to streamline discussions on response measures.
The EU, ICELAND, SWITZERLAND, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a single base year of 1990, with multiple reference points that could be used for communication or policy purposes.
SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to consider the impact of Annex I mitigation activities on developing countries and PAKISTAN called for further work on the impact of response measures.
On projects starting in 2000 and prior to the adoption of this decision, CANADA, JAPAN and NORWAY sought clarification on the suggested deadline of 31 December 2005 for such projects to be eligible for validation and registration.
Noting financial constraints, Luxembourg and Norway suggested shortening the duration of IPCC-47.
Some Parties, including the MARSHALL ISLANDS, SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, objected to the establishment of an intergovernmental body on economic instruments since this work is currently being done by IPCC Working Group 3, and suggested that UNEP channel its resources and efforts through the IPCC.
CHINA and EGYPT underscored a governmental role.
Regarding a compilation and synthesis of information from national communications from small island developing States  with a focus on adaptation and mitigation, NIUE and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA, and EU, urged retaining this as a separate synthesis document.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, observed markets are more related to the mitigation than the transparency section and recognized the potential to cluster: purpose of market mechanisms and principles for their use; accounting of market transfers; elaboration of further rules; and consistent use of estimation methodologies, adjustments and common metrics.
ZIMBABWE, supported by BRAZIL, noted that a procedure of initial nominations of experts was a constructive use of time.
SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA suggested weighing the pros and cons of commitment period options.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA said that Parties, upon establishment of their assigned amount and until expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments, "should" not make a transfer resulting in these holdings falling below the required commitment period reserve level.
On Thursday, 5 June, during the consideration of non-Annex I financial matters, Tanzania, on behalf of the LDCs, proposed that the matters relating to LDC Fund be addressed separately from the SCCF.
China, Norway, Sweden, the EU, Denmark, Canada, the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Chile and others urged approval of the figure.
CHINA and INDIA said Annex I countries have the main responsibility.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, proposed a pilot phase approach.
He said the EU is ready to play its part if that is the condition for agreeing to a longer-term vision by developing countries, as stated by the African Group.
The US and CANADA suggested drawing from a roster of experts for consultation.
On the roster of experts, CANADA, the UK, the US and NEW ZEALAND called for regular reviews as well as inclusion of gender considerations.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed the importance of enhancing the Secretariat’s resources given pre-2020 work and preparations for the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
BULGARIA, HUNGARY, POLAND and ROMANIA sought flexibility in report preparation for Parties with economies in transition and approval to use years prior to 1990 as their base years.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the importance of the SBSTA’s work on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries  and the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation .
TUVALU and INDIA stressed the importance of impact assessments.
The EU, with CANADA and the US, proposed using language from Decision 1/CP.10.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , supported grouping together paragraphs on transparency and reporting.
Responding to SWITZERLAND and the EU, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, clarified that they had been working to e2 80 9cslim down e2 80 9d the options contained in the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text, underlining that it was not new text.
Representatives from Algeria, Argentina, Barbados and Qatar also attended as per the BASIC-plus approach.
On financial and technical support, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concerns about the relationship between the GEF’s Resource Allocation Framework  and funding for national communications.
Switzerland, for the EIG, described differentiation as a tool to reflect distinct realities and circumstances, saying that fair differentiation requires self-differentiation, complemented by guiding elements.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the Special Climate Change Fund and Adaptation Fund.
A wide group of countries spoke in favor of this proposal stating it would improve the effectiveness of the Convention, including COSTA RICA, COLOMBIA, GUYANA, SURINAME and the EU.
Opposing a proposal by the EU to include references to the Millennium Development Goals , the G-77/China insisted that such references should only be addressed in the preambular text.
Algeria, for the African Group, urged ambitious Annex I targets in the range of 25-40% cuts by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and Maldives, for the LDCs, urged deep cuts.
Two informal drafting groups also convened on agriculture, facilitated by Uruguay and New Zealand, and on international maritime shipping and aviation , facilitated by Egypt and Canada.
BRAZIL urged parties to clarify assumptions associated with procedures for factoring out, and, along with TUVALU, noted that caps or discount factors could be applied to different accounting strategies.
On the number and length of commitment periods, the G-77/CHINA and AOSIS supported a single commitment period of 5 years, AUSTRALIA supported one commitment period of 5 or 8 years and the EU proposed one commitment period of 8 years.
Japan and the EU asked for the agenda item to be deleted since it was addressed elsewhere in the SB’s agenda.
Finland, supported by South Africa, the EU and Italy, suggested using approved text that e2 80 9cthese methods cannot identify e2 80 9d the single best balance.
BHUTAN proposed including reference to the specific and special circumstances of LDCs.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, suggested the "detection of anthropogenic climate change," needed to be put into a historical perspective.
 COOK ISLANDS called for extended sources of funding for the Adaptation Fund, and REPUBLIC OF CONGO emphasized implementation of the Nairobi Work Programme.
Many speakers, such as URUGUAY, NICARAGUA and SAUDI ARABIA, cautioned against straying from the ultimate objective of the Convention and spending an inordinate amount of time discussing cooperative mechanisms, which only serve selected countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, echoed by the EU, welcomed the text and looked forward to active engagement in the in-session roundtables, to be held in conjunction with SB 46, to ensure “that we do not start from scratch.” Parties agreed to forward the text, with minor adjustments, to the COP for consideration.
Underscoring that the Kyoto Protocol is the only legal instrument to tackle the increase in developed countries’ emissions, Dominica, for ALBA, expressed concern over diverting the Kyoto Protocol discussions to the ADP.
Iran, Algeria and Burkina Faso encouraged establishing links with capacity building and UNFCCC Article 6.
Other countries, including JAPAN, KENYA and SAUDI ARABIA, said that a reference to risks in this section was not necessary.
The G-77/CHINA, GAMBIA, GRENADA, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK and others, opposed by JAPAN, said discussions on further Annex I commitments should be concluded by 2008.
The US and JAPAN recommended adoption of guidelines for national systems at COP-6.
In plenary and contact group sessions, parties disagreed on whether to refer to positive as well as negative potential consequences, with the EU, Canada, Japan and others supporting the inclusion of both, India opposing, and others suggesting a focus on negative effects with positive effects potentially discussed in the future.
Brazil and India supported capping carryover of AAUs.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, underlined the importance of national, regional and international adaptation centers and highlighted that, while adaptation on the ground should be recognized, parties should avoid creating a burdensome mechanism for MRV of adaptation activities.
India noted that adaptation planning should be included in the planning of infrastructure development projects, and Poland proposed including social aspects of adaptation.
Noting that economic diversification is not a straightforward matter, UNEP recounted the experience of Kenya, which moved from reliance on tourism to horticulture and flower exports in time to be impacted by the concept of carbon miles, and thus “jumped from the frying pan to the fire.” Mauritius shared its experience in successfully diversifying from a sole reliance on sugar exports towards other food products, tea, textiles, tourism, and information and communication technology.
EGYPT and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to avoid duplication.
Belize, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for common reporting formats and an agreement on a simple set of definitions to assess climate finance trends.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the US, said that GEF should be established as the permanent FCCC financial mechanism.
BRAZIL, with JAMAICA, underscored the role of regional climate change models.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA urged adopting the guidelines for both the UNFCCC and the Protocol in order to prepare national inventories in time for entry into force of the Protocol.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported extending and expanding the LEG’s mandate, highlighting that 45 countries have submitted NAPAs.
NORWAY and JAPAN expressed readiness to work on the basis of the revised draft decision.
JORDAN and ALGERIA stated that the review should not be limited to mitigation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed the outcome as robust guidance that provides parties with the necessary tools to implement collective and individual commitments under the Paris Agreement.
Monaco, Norway, Ireland, Spain, the US, New Zealand, Germany, Canada and Switzerland requested an agenda item on proposals for SRs to begin initial discussions of the issue.
The G-77/CHINA, Costa Rica, for AILAC, and the EU said the GCF should be anchored into the agreement.
On entry into force, the EU, JAPAN and the ARAB GROUP noted that entry into force lacks a double threshold.
The EU said a strong compliance regime was a fundamental requirement and AOSIS highlighted the importance it attaches to this issue.
New Zealand questioned whether caps are necessary, given the transparent accounting in the G-77/China’s proposal.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that Cancun should help to prepare a legally-binding agreement that includes commitments by all major economies.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Maldives, for AOSIS, the EU and Angola, for the LDCs, said their statements would be uploaded to the UNFCCC website.
On identification of compliance-related elements and gaps, the US, with CANADA and the EU, indicated the need to differentiate elements from gaps and proposed three categories to identify them: substantive rules; procedures for addressing compliance; and consequences of non-compliance.
SENEGAL and ARGENTINA noted constraints on translation and dissemination of communications.
AUSTRALIA, supported by URUGUAY, cautioned against duplicating the work of the IPCC and said that the panels will ensure that SBSTA will continue to get non-politicized science.
SWEDEN highlighted the value of EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Grenada, for AOSIS, proposed inserting a preamble recognizing that developed countries shall achieve their QELROs primarily through domestic efforts.
Participants agreed to a request by Saudi Arabia to simplify the language for policymakers e2 80 99 understanding, and to a suggestion by Canada to delete the reference to the iterative risk management framework, and approved the remainder of the sentence as presented.
  The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by the US, proposed a contact group to consider procedural issues related to the Standing Committee and other institutions, as well as nominations to those institutions.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA called for implementing the Durban balanced “package” by, inter alia: strengthening the Convention principles, in particular equity and common but differentiated responsibilities , expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-LCA, particularly on adaptation, financing and technology transfer, drawing attention to the finance gap from now to 2020.
In an afternoon meeting of the contact group, SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, introduced their proposed changes to the Co-Chairs 92 text, that would limit credits for carbon sequestration due to windfall effects caused by, inter alia, carbon dioxide fertilization, nitrogen deposition, age structure effects of forests, and climate change.
INDIA and others said they supported only positive lists, while the EU said negative lists could be needed, for instance, to avoid double counting and to clarify that unilateral NAMAs do not qualify under the CDM.
The EU, with the US and NORWAY, proposed that the Co-Chairs work on specific decision language for consideration by the group.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by the EU, preferred not to refer to the results of the AWG-LCA but to use language on “other relevant UNFCCC bodies.” CANADA said it “did not make sense” to selectively list some bodies, and called for reflecting all bodies.
The EU, Australia, Norway and Japan supported the continued use of GWPs, and Norway proposed that the IPCC provide additional information on other metrics.
On the  , the G-77/China emphasized a top-down approach, with India and China noting that it was needed in the absence of adequate pledges.
With CANADA, JAPAN and the EU, she emphasized that adaptation should be country-driven and that priority should be given to the most vulnerable.
Poland, for the Central Group Eleven, said the treatment of non-compliance should not be based on the Parties, but on the nature of the commitment.
The US, supported by the EU, stressed institutional problems of ITAPs and said establishment of an ITAP should await completion of the evaluation report.
Singapore, opposed by the LDCs, suggested deleting “scaling-up” of adaptation action, and the EU suggested replacing it with “enhancing.” Many preferred the original formulation.
POLAND said there should be an equal number of Protocol Annex B and non-Annex B Parties, and AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, added that the composition would depend upon the article under review.
Supported by KENYA and POLAND, she said there is a need to get information to all levels of society and to improve regional participation using local experts.
Switzerland, for the EIG, asked that the Co-Chairs “make choices in light of the Paris Agreement,” which included: legally-binding guidance where the Agreement foresees it; not introducing bifurcation where not present in the Agreement; and reflecting that developed countries shall provide financial resources, and other parties are encouraged to do so.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, registered deep concern over the lack of ambition, saying that the consequences of a 3°C world had not been fully appreciated.
With BRAZIL and the US, she questioned the role of the ERTs in the process of referral since they were concerned only with technical information.
UKRAINE highlighted legislation facilitating implementation of JI projects in Ukraine and stressed that attracting foreign carbon investment is a priority for the Ukrainian government.
Argentina and Bangladesh emphasized the importance of food security.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the distinction between developed and developing countries and the close link between MRV of actions and MRV of support.
Spain, for the EU, highlighted their contribution of €45 million to the Fund.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that progress on adaptation communication could be accelerated through a formal linkage with the transparency framework.
GUYANA, with CAMBODIA, the AFRICAN GROUP and TANZANIA, underscored the need for sustained and predictable funding.
JAPAN underlined the importance of recognizing past support for adaptation and, with MOZAMBIQUE, highlighted institutional and managerial capacity building, and training for vulnerability assessments and response measures.
India and China stressed the need to address all elements of the Bali Action Plan equally.
SWITZERLAND said that the TAR should be routinely considered in all agenda items and, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that future annotated agendas should reference the TAR.
On the  , Argentina, for the G-77/China, said the TEC should have a mandate on the TCN and set priorities and technical criteria.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , highlighted the importance of stakeholder participation and proposed means to enhance the participation of observer organizations, such as a forum to promote dialogue among participants.
SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA, KUWAIT and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES stated that the workshop outlined in the COP-7 decision addressed Article 3.14, and said a separate workshop should be held on Article 2.3.
South Africa underlined that adoption of conclusions requires consensus and said that, in light of the African Group’s reservations, there was no consensus.
Norway highlighted its suggestion for financing using revenues from the auctioning of carbon credits, and the Republic of Korea proposed crediting of NAMAs.
Papua New Guinea and Guyana stressed that political discussions on REDD should be left to the AWG-LCA and that the SBSTA should consider capacity building and methodological issues.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-KP, lamenting delay in adopting conclusions on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual emission reductions.
Grenada, for AOSIS, urged more intensive and focused negotiations in August and expressed satisfaction with progress on finance.
 Canada, supported by the US, proposed deleting a sentence noting that the potential benefits of technology transfer to developing countries may be substantial but that no reliable estimates exist.
NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CANADA and the US suggested highlighting a variety of sources.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY expressed support for the texts.
Bolivia for the G-77/China, Colombia for AILAC, the Arab Group, and Australia stressed NDCs’ nationally determined nature.
Many developing countries supported a greater focus on the needs of developing countries in terms of observing systems, and Burundi, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia highlighted the importance of early warning systems.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, opposed holding it in conjunction with the COP.
On guidance on the mitigation section of Decision 1/CP.21, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Maldives, for AOSIS, opposed references to the land sector and called for guidance to ensure environmental integrity and prevent double counting under Agreement Article 6 .
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for a workshop in June on adaptation commitments.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of publicly funded technologies and support to the private sector.
With CANADA, the US and NORWAY, JAPAN underscored the importance of addressing the flexibility mechanisms in parallel, reaching early agreement and developing a work plan for unresolved issues.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Algeria, stressed the need to address response measures in the context of adaptation and highlighted that in Copenhagen, political leaders agreed to such an approach.
During the resumed first working group session of the multilateral assessment under the IAR process, responding to Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and BRAZIL on whether substantive conclusions of the multilateral assessment will be considered by the SBI, SBI Chair Yauvoli said the conclusions will be procedural.
Switzerland, the US and Norway underscored the need for stakeholder participation and transparency in the CDM.
On reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ITALY, for the EU, said developed countries must make a greater effort and developing countries must also take steps towards this end.
On long-term and global aspects, Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested a regular review of the elements under the section on the basis of science and, with CHINA, referencing the 1.5 c2 b0C and 2 c2 b0C goals.
Maldives, for AOSIS, asked that the Co-Chairs not reissue a new text on the transparency framework given ongoing negotiations.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the agreement on MRV, saying it must respect national sovereignty and take into account the LDCs and SIDS.
Brazil, on behalf of the G-77/China, emphasized that work on LULUCF should be guided by the ultimate objective of the FCCC and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
China and Japan emphasized that the AR4 is not a negotiated outcome.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the need for an overarching agreement in Durban that is able to enhance ambition over time.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored adaptation as a major priority, and proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund under the Convention.
On Working Group structure and mandates, Russia, Australia, China, France, Hungary, the US, Sudan and others supported the current structure.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested a standing call for submissions under the APA.
On allowing   from future commitment periods, the G-77/China supported no decision on the issue, while Ukraine and Canada preferred maintaining the option.
BRAZIL and SAMOA expressed strong disagreement, SAMOA preferring to bracket "deforestation or harvesting."
On sharing information, knowledge and lessons learned, CHINA and IRAN emphasized the knowledge gap on the implementation of adaptation.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, proposed a TEM on reviewing existing policy databases and, supported by AUSTRALIA, said TEMs should focus on implementation.
In response, the UK and CANADA noted their liberalization of energy markets and renewable energy measures.
A joint proposal from Australia, Canada and Japan was also submitted.
Relating to a paragraph on the scope of the 2015 agreement, the LDCs, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed loss and damage as a fundamental element.
This was opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT, with SAUDI ARABIA suggesting that the technical paper consider, inter alia: analysis of pledges; spillover effects; and response measures.
Maldives, for LDCs, called for a climate change regime to be developed within the existing framework based on the four building blocks.
On expertise, the EU, supported by CHILE, noted an
Chile, for AILAC, called for the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C to be a key element of the political phase of the Dialogue, and NORWAY noted the report would provide a scientific basis to understand where we are, and how to get where we need to be.
Venezuela, for the LMDCs, said the guidance must be in the context of the Paris Agreement and the Convention, and, with ARGENTINA, called for inclusion of information on support.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, requested deletion of references to the co-chairs’ informal summary of the pre-sessional roundtables, noting that parties had not been consulted on its contents.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU said Ministers had agreed during COP-6 Part II that the consequences would be binding and that only the mode of adoption had been deferred to COP/MOP-1.
SINGAPORE, with BRAZIL, CHINA, EGYPT and many others, opposed by SWITZERLAND, the LDCs, CANADA, the US and others, requested deletion of e2 80 9cby 31 May 2015. e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND preferred e2 80 9cwell before COP 21, e2 80 9d with TURKEY agreeing to e2 80 9cbefore e2 80 9d COP 21.
CHINA underlined that proposals by AOSIS, Costa Rica and Tuvalu are being fully considered under the AWG-LCA and questioned how the legal outcome can be addressed without clear understanding of the substance.
He suggested: a roundtable in June to discuss efforts countries see themselves taking from 2020 in the context of national circumstances; and, supported by the EU and Norway, a roundtable on a potential consultation process to compare efforts proposed by countries and the level of mitigation ambition required by science
Several delegations, including CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, COSTA RICA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, endorsed the decisions and acknowledged the cooperative efforts of non-Annex I Parties.
The G-77/CHINA proposed that Annex I parties take on “at least” a 25-40% goal, and INDIA stressed that lifestyle changes could lead to greater reductions.
The coalition, formed by the EU, LDCs, and at least ten other countries, called for a robust rulebook to be adopted in Katowice and looked ahead to the 2019 UN Secretary-General Climate Summit as a milestone for raising ambition before 2020.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA also suggested that activities to combat climate change need to be beneficial for the economy and that action should not impinge on competitiveness.
MALAYSIA said the AOSIS draft protocol should form a basis to elaborate on quantified targets.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, welcomed the start of discussions on the NDC registry and the advice of how the IPCC assessment reports can feed into the global stocktake.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by New Zealand, supported a role for the COP/MOP.
Supporting Australia, Japan explained that its main trading partners were not the other Annex I Parties but non-Annex I Asian countries.
Sudan and Bolivia stressed the need for transparency and sought clarification on the establishment of a smaller group.
CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, said important decisions sometimes have to be reiterated until they are implemented.
Norway, with the EU, called for commitments from all parties, and pricing carbon.
  SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and QATAR, noted that the issue had been pending for “a very long time” but requested that reference linking a workshop on 1/CP.10 to a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 be deleted.
 During afternoon informal consultations that were open to observers, AWG-LCA Chair Tayeb reported that some issues are “close to conclusion,” while others are “moving in circles” or “even backwards.” He also noted that ministers from the Maldives and Switzerland had agreed to facilitate informal consultations on the continuity of finance in the 2013-2020 period.
Chile, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , which includes Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama and Peru, emphasized the Convention as a “living instrument” and the need to be dynamic in its interpretation.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted the need to also consider non-market approaches and emphasized the importance of discussions on finance.
The US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, suggested that where members from one branch participate in the work of the other, it be on a non-voting basis.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: additional resources for the LEG; replenishing the LDCs Fund; and enhancing access to GCF funds.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and CANADA stressed that adaptation does not include adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
COLOMBIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed reference to LDCs, SIDS and Africa in text on facilitating work on methodologies in certain countries, while the EU and others supported it.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/China, requested that, pursuant to Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the provisional agenda for SBI-20 and subsequent sessions should include an item on the "continuing review of the function and operations of the Secretariat," and requested that this proposal be officially noted in the report of SBI-19.
 In the opening SBSTA plenary, Indonesia, Malaysia and others highlighted the need for regional and local modeling.
In paragraph 7, the EU"s reference to collaboration between the Secretariat, non-Annex I Parties, the GEF and the subsidiary bodies was rejected by the US.
He underscored that developed countries have yet to meet their Convention or Protocol obligations regarding mitigation and MOI, which the EU and AUSTRALIA disputed in their cases.
Egypt, supported by Brazil, proposed an additional paragraph to capture the importance of an agreement on scaled-up, new and additional, predictable, adequate and improved access to finance for developing countries to enable and support enhanced action on mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, and CHINA said sections on market and non-market approaches, and new market-based mechanisms could prejudge discussions under the Subsidiary Bodies.
Several parties observed the need to recognize the special circumstances of small island developing states  and LDCs, with SAUDI ARABIA noting that this is already in the Convention.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed disappointment with the slow pace of negotiations on key issues, in particular on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
Japan and China called for a simple process through the publication of the INDCs on the UNFCCC website, with China objecting to compilation of INDCs by the Secretariat.
Zimbabwe, supported by Egypt, argued against the emphasis on the difference between 1.5 c2 b0C and 2 c2 b0C, recalling that the mandate was simply to assess the 1.5 c2 b0C scenario.
The US, the EU and New Zealand expressed concern over the proposal.
 South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Venezuela, Mali, Brazil and others disagreed, and stressed the need to maintain reference to additional TSUs, noting that many developing countries favor the establishment of TSUs in developing countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the Talanoa Dialogue to ensure that the findings from the IPCC special report on 1.5 c2 b0C are taken up before COP 24 and, on loss and damage, called for intersessional discussions, expert groups under the WIM ExCom, and building linkages to the Convention’s Financial Mechanism.
AOSIS stressed the urgency of the question of insurance and, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, viewed the additions to the agenda item as technical rather than substantive.
Bolivia, speaking for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, said they had proposed draft decision text on nearly all elements of the BAP and highlighted the need to reach agreement on ambitious and equitable results on all elements of BAP in order to close the AWG-LCA.
BANGLADESH underlined the needs of LDCs.
AOSIS and TUVALU opposed discussing impacts of response measures under adaptation, noting the issue is addressed under mitigation.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for joint implementation of disaster risk management and climate change adaptation and stressed the need to strengthen national-level institutions.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, preferred referring to efforts that parties are able to e2 80 9cundertake, e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cmake unilaterally.
Several proposals have been received and document FCCC/SBSTA/1996/MISC.1 describes an initial phase of reporting based on proposals from the US and Germany.
The following countries presented on results and progress related to achieving their quantified, economy-wide emissions reduction targets: the EU, Canada, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and France.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said scaled up funding should mainly come from developed countries’ public resources, amounting to 1.5% of their GDP, with supplementary funding from the private sector.
Echoing this thought, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Kuwait placed official reservations on the document since it did not satisfy their requirements as countries with special conditions recognized by Article 4.8.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that the complexity of agenda items should determine their allocated negotiating time.
Only Canada and the Russian Federation opposed it, with Canada objecting to a reference to only some parts of the AR4 and the Russian Federation preferring to refer specifically to Working Group III 92s contribution to AR4, since this was where this text originally came from.
Australia and Spain, for the EU, emphasized that the document should acknowledge that implementation is already occurring.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, and Malawi, for the LDCs, welcomed a full initial review.
CHILE, for Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Panama, called for means of implementation to address both mitigation and adaptation.
The US, NORWAY and CANADA highlighted the importance of the private sector.
Colombia, for AILAC, described the facilitative nature of the Basel Convention’s Implementation and Compliance Committee, which in non-compliance cases is competent to recognize and assist with capacity needs, and advises the COP to make cautionary statements.
UGANDA, the GAMBIA, NEPAL, BURKINA FASO, the US and others said the needs and concerns of least developed countries should be clearly articulated in the text and in decisions.
Canada highlighted regional and sectoral differences and the Russian Federation emphasized the need to consider national circumstances.
He highlighted a study of domestic measures in China, Brazil and India showing that significant reductions are mostly made unilaterally and not necessarily within the  CDM framework.
Cautioning against adding more text, BRAZIL, supported by TURKEY, called for constructive engagement to build bridges and find consensus.
Marco Antonio Rondon, International Center for Tropical Agriculture, Colombia, outlined greenhouse gas mitigating opportunities in Latin America through managing agriculture and livestock in savannas, restoring degraded lands in the Amazon and greening sugar cane harvest.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Kenya and Zambia, for the least developed countries , expressed concern about the GCF drafting its own accountability relationship, suggesting that the Standing Committee should undertake this task.
 The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, favored legally binding P&amp;Ms and highlighted his proposed Annexes A , B  and C .
China, supported by Venezuela, Papua New Guinea, United Arab Emirates, Brazil, Nigeria and Bahrain, expressed sympathy for Tuvalu’s proposal, but opposed discussing proposed Protocol amendments that “do not enhance the Protocol.” He said issues such as share of proceeds and compliance could be discussed further, and suggested that: proposals related to Protocol Article 3.9 be referred to the AWG-KP; and a “limited number” of other proposals be selected for discussion under this agenda item.
VIET NAM and the US called for further discussion.
Several Annex I countries, including the US, Norway, the EU, and Switzerland, noted their support for the GEF 92s work, while several developing countries cited issues with the GEF.
VENEZUELA, with CHINA, stated that market approaches play a limited role in the Protocol and are not mentioned in the Convention, suggesting their inclusion poses a legal problem.
Germany and the Netherlands preferred the second bracketed option.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the preamble of the text on a shared vision should set out the “bigger picture,” including concepts such as historical responsibility, justice, equity and burden sharing, as well as the effective implementation of developed countries’ commitments.
 On scope and key issues, the EU, with COLOMBIA, proposed working on modalities, procedures and guidance of the committee.
The EU, opposed by BRAZIL, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and KENYA, suggested that the CGE 92s findings be presented by June 2001 to contribute to the review of guidelines so as to adopt at COP-7 improved guidelines for the second national communications.
South Africa, for BASIC, called for upfront understanding on differentiation.
POLAND, for the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, said the treatment of non-compliance should not be based on the Parties, but on the nature of the commitment.
Switzerland submitted a written proposal on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group .
Emphasizing that adaptation cannot be measured and quantified, Canada, New Zealand and Australia did not support linkages between the long-term temperature limit, the need for support and adaptation.
BRAZIL and INDIA expressed concern about the possible proliferation of bilateral mechanisms and, with CHINA, noted the value of the CDM.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stated that it looked forward to considering issues identified by the EGTT under the AWG-LCA and underscored action-based implementation of the NWP.
On means of communication, TUVALU and JAMAICA, opposed by the EU, CANADA and AUSTRALIA, supported an explicit reference to electronic means of communication, stating that language on the inviolability for all papers and documents, taken from the 1946 Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the UN, does not cover all means of communication.
Gabon, for the African Group, supported by Saudi Arabia, China, India, Iran, Bangladesh, and Brazil, for Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, expressed disappointment and concern that there was no agreement on the terms of reference for the CGE, noting its importance in building capacity for developing countries preparing their national communications and biennial update reports.
Algeria, for the African Group, lamented that despite appeals, the AWG-KP did not complete its work on Annex I emission reductions and that the gap between Annex I parties’ pledges and the science remains significant.
Responding to Grenada on how she intents to proceed with the proposal by AOSIS, Chair Mukahanana-Sangarwe said she would consult with the AWG-KP Chair on the potential for joint discussions.
Naoko Ishii, CEO, GEF, announced donors have pledged more than US$50 million to the Capacity-building Initiative for Transparency , and implementation projects will begin in Costa Rica, Kenya and South Africa.
The meeting involved leaders from the G8 countries, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Mexico, South Africa and the EU.
Switzerland, supported by Belgium, Germany and others, proposed replacing it with “resulting” warming.
AUSTRALIA, with NORWAY, indicated that a technology mechanism is not a single mechanism but a series of mechanisms and underlined the importance of centers of excellence.
Pakistan noted that the text “reflects deep pragmatism and understanding.” Tajikistan, on behalf of Landlocked Mountainous Developing Countries, welcomed the proposed adaptation framework and the process for the design of the funding board, lamenting, however, that his region was not represented in the proposed climate fund’s transitional committee.
The EU and ARGENTINA said adaptation should be included in sustainable development plans.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for: commitment to the Convention principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities; equal progress in drafting text on all items; and the final outcome at COP 24 to be a single package.
 Brazil, Nigeria, Bangladesh, India, Egypt, Micronesia and Thailand supported the G-77 and China"s statement made on Wednesday.
In the ensuing discussion, ARGENTINA, the EU and others supported controlling maritime and aviation emissions under the UNFCCC, while SINGAPORE and others preferred addressing them through the IMO and International Civil Aviation Organization .
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for: a higher level of ambition; a five-year commitment period; swiftly resolving the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs; and restricting the flexibility mechanisms to parties entering a second commitment period.
MICRONESIA, supported by the US, highlighted the value of outside initiatives, such as those focused on HFCs, black carbon, methane and ground-level ozone.
Recalling it had only become an Annex I party in 2013, CYPRUS, inter alia: said it has a 5% non-ETS reduction target by 2020, compared to 2005; presented on sectoral mitigation policies and measures; and noted that Cyprus is e2 80 9con its way e2 80 9d to meet its 2020 target.
On recommending text of a protocol, another legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention, the Russian Federation, with the EU and Tuvalu, proposed including reference to Convention Article 17  and applied rules of procedure, so that the six-month rule for introducing text can be adhered to.
 The second round-table discussion was co-chaired by Paula Dobriansky, Under-Secretary for Global Affairs, US, and Mohammed Valli Moosa, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, South Africa.
France, supported by Australia, Mali, China, Spain, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Finland, and Grenada, proposed characterizing this scenario as a “thought experiment.”
  in the climate system, the US and the UK suggested adding reference to ocean acidification, noting it is a key finding of AR5.
Recognizing the common understanding reached on the strategic role of the technology framework in bringing transformational change, Mexico, for the EIG, commended the work of the TEC and CTCN, including on linkages with the Financial Mechanism.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed classifying impacts in a way that leads to action, i.e.
NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, UAE and IRAN supported CCS as a viable option under the CDM.
On parity between adaptation and mitigation, Australia and Norway proposed deletion of text relating to achieving political parity between mitigation and adaptation.
Australia and New Zealand also did not support linkages between mitigation ambition, adaptation needs, the global temperature goal, and finance.
Brazil, supported by Tanzania, Austria and Morocco, expressed interest in an expert scoping meeting without prejudice to the outcome, but asked for clarification on participation.
On appeals, the EU, Micronesia and Samoa, opposed by New Zealand, doubted their necessity, since it would delay the process and merely afford Parties the opportunity to have their case heard twice.
 NORWAY supported Australia on comprehensiveness, saying the commitments should cover all GHGs, sinks and sources.
On the report of the GEF, the EU, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and the US, requested text highlighting the importance of the third GEF replenishment.
On the type of further commitments, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported continuing the current approach but urged defining national targets based on objective criteria rather than political negotiation.
At the invitation of Switzerland and Mexico, a group of ministers and government representatives from 46 countries and the European Union, together with the AWG-LCA Chair and the UNFCCC Executive Secretary, met in an informal setting to discuss current themes related to finance in the ongoing UN climate negotiations.
On the impact of implementation of response measures, JAPAN, supported by the US but opposed by CHINA, stressed that non-Annex II Parties able to support developing countries should be encouraged to do so.
The US, with Japan, Germany and Norway, but opposed by Saudi Arabia, called for deleting reference to MoUs.
Sudan, for the African Group, appreciated the successful work under REDD+, especially on non-carbon benefits, and looked forward to the report from the agricultural workshop, stressing it should be comprehensive and capture developing countries e2 80 99 views.
Poland, for the EU, welcomed progress on many issues, including discussions on a future legally-binding framework.
New Zealand and Japan urged referring to transparency of support provided and received.
With respect to the scope of application, Saudi Arabia, opposed by Samoa and Peru suggested that the compliance system apply to all commitments 96 not just those "contained" in, but also those "referred to" in the Protocol.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, preferred working from existing informal notes, saying that too few items are mature enough for a single progress document.
France, on behalf of the EU, called for a pilot phase that is transparent, well-defined and credible, with no credits for Annex I Parties.
Ghana, for the African Group, and Switzerland emphasized the need to consider the most vulnerable countries, particularly Africa, the LDCs and small island developing states .
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported: establishing contact groups to progress deliberations; deepening understanding on the ADP roadmap to be adopted in Doha; and progressive discussions on a 2013 work plan on ambition.
COLOMBIA and AUSTRALIA suggested focusing on the substantive work and skipping opening and closing plenaries.
EGYPT and INDIA called for a  Clean Development Mechanism  that will significantly impact on sustainable development in developing countries.
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , called for: progress on IPRs; agriculture discussions to only focus on adaptation; and the COP to provide guidance to ICAO and IMO.
 The COP adopted a decision accepting Mexico’s offer to host COP 16 and COP/MOP 6 and noted the offer by South Africa to host COP 17 and COP/MOP 7 .
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed the need to focus on the key operational elements and emphasized commitment to a strong global agreement to avoid dangerous climate change.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, pointed to parallel views on the issues and a lack of common understanding of the term “country-driven.” Advocating attribution, she expressed concern with the structure of the revised negotiating text, which she said made it difficult to find the Group’s proposals.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with the EU, among others, welcomed progress made by the constituted bodies.
 POLAND: Stanislaw Zelichowski, Minister of Environmental Protection, said reduced emission levels by economies in transition helped to offset slight increases by OECD country Parties.
 GERMANY stated that differentiation within the EU was not based on indicators, because indicators do not reflect political reality.
On textual amendments, several parties supported retaining text on the first commitment period and adding new text on the second, while CANADA noted this may become cumbersome, and NEW ZEALAND proposed a case-by-case approach.
Australia, Canada, the EU and US said Parties should follow SBI Chair Estrada 92s request for a decision on process, not on substance.
Sudan, for the African Group, reflected on the way the world views the process, noting that the only outputs of the Bonn session are non-papers without official status.
Brazil, supported by Sudan, proposed having a single volume in two parts instead of two volumes.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, welcomed timely progress on the Poznan strategic programme on technology transfer, noting important work ahead.
A number of parties supported addressing the text thematically, with Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China , and Jamaica, for AOSIS, proposing to start with text on monitoring and evaluation.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed concern with some parties questioning the validity of the Convention after 20 years, and reinterpreting certain terms.
China, on behalf of BASIC , said that, although disappointed with certain aspects of the package, members of the group accept the decisions and promised a “proactive approach” to deal with climate change in the future.
On the focus of future discussions, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, said the group’s mandate was to focus on minimizing adverse impacts, while CANADA said positive effects needed equal treatment and NEW ZEALAND observed that the group’s mandate was sufficiently broad to accommodate both negative and positive effects.
To this, Japan noted that in many industries IPRs constitute a small part of the total cost and that there are other barriers to technology transfer, while Switzerland said IPRs are insignificant in the housing and transport sectors.
Japan and the Russian Federation highlighted their ongoing domestic processes on further emission reductions.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES, said technology transfer and financing should be a basis for discussions.
The US, Norway, Mexico and others supported removing the reference stating that Rio+20 is a broader “political” document than the Durban Platform and that “a lack of clarity” would not be beneficial.
The G-77/CHINA supported separate decisions with individual chapeaus on the three mechanisms, while CANADA, the EU and other Annex I countries supported three decisions under one chapeau.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said developing countries showed their full commitment towards making progress in Panama through their positive participation in all working groups and across all subjects.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reiterated that acceptance was ad referendum.
France, for the EU, stressed synergies between the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP and the importance of a shared vision as a statement of political will that translates the Convention’s ultimate objective into a vision of sustainable development.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called on the Co-Chairs to ensure overall balance in the process, gradually deepening the substance and robustness of the text.
Regarding future actions, GERMANY said it would commit itself to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 levels by 2020 if all developed countries committed themselves to further reductions, and the EU committed itself to emission reductions of about 30%.
Malawi, Uganda, the Netherlands, Spain, Peru and others reiterated the need to produce the Synthesis Report by UNFCCC COP-13 in 2007.
Kenya, for the African Group, called for a process to take forward technical issues, saying a “very comprehensive” decision on this will be needed in Doha.
During SBI discussions, the G-77/CHINA proposed holding COP-6 in November 2000, while the US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, preferred early 2001.
The G-77/ CHINA supported more information on adaptation policy options, and JAPAN said a mitigation portfolio was also necessary.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, said attempts to link the AWG-LCA to other processes threaten to dilute the AWG-LCA, and said work in future sessions must be based on the Convention’s principles.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN welcomed President Elyazghi 92s intention to consult and report back to the COP before the ministerial segment on the agenda item "second review of the adequacy of Article 4.2  and ," and said they looked forward to a full discussion of this issue at COP-8.
The US noted that if only the EU and the US were to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050, such actions would still result in 630 ppm, and stressed the need for additional efforts and consideration of the financial component.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called on developed countries to live up to their historical responsibilities in adopting a “clear and meaningful” second commitment period in Doha.
Japan, opposed by China and Indonesia, supported using ODA funding for the CDM.
He said the EU accepts the concept of carbon sinks, especially forests, but, with the Central Group Eleven  and Norway, stressed a number of problems, especially of scale.
Several speakers, including the G-77/CHINA, the EU and CG-11, supported entry into force of the Protocol in time for the WSSD.
CHINA, with PAKISTAN and ARGENTINA, requested references to the BAP and, with Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, and others, to previous COP decisions.
Uganda, Iran and Malaysia urged further efforts with regard to transfer of technology, financial resources and capacity building.
The EU agreed with much of the AOSIS data and welcomed the opportunity to “get underneath” the numbers.
MEXICO proposed including language indicating that market-based approaches shall be “country-driven.” KENYA asked for the inclusion of principles on upfront funding and equity.
The COP convened presidency consultations, co-facilitated by Teresa Ribera Rodr c3 adguez, Minister for the Ecological Transition, Spain, and Derek Andre Hanekom, Minister of Tourism, South Africa.
Guatemala, for AILAC, said the preamble should include a reference to gender and supported a quantified or quantifiable unilateral component in “features” under the mitigation article.
On other matters and countries with economies in transition to a market economy, BELARUS, for Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, supported a spin-off group on the issue to complete work.
Cyprus, on behalf of the EU, outlined outcomes for Doha, including: progressing on a new agreement with legally-binding commitments by all parties by 2015 at the latest; enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition; and closing the AWG-LCA to streamline negotiations.
Tanzania, Benin and Djibouti noted that LDCs will be most affected by climate change and have the least capacity to cope.
The Netherlands and France said that reliance on inventories alone was insufficient for evaluating the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms. Nigeria and others proposed workshops to examine the effect of P&amp;Ms on developing countries, and suggested that P&amp;Ms be dealt with as a cross-cutting issue with Articles 4.8 and 4.9 .
Noting proposals for new forums on potential consequences under the SBI, SBSTA and AWG-LCA, the EU and NEW ZEALAND recommended joint discussions to ensure language in the texts is not contradictory.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for significant public funding and asked developed countries how much money they would be “putting on the table” in Copenhagen.
Spain, with Australia, supported requesting a task group to consider issues associated with the “potential” creation of an executive director position to lead the Secretariat, including mode of appointment, skills required and, in consultation with UNEP and the WMO, to make recommendations at IPCC-33.
Sweden proposed replacing “taxes and charges” by “carbon tax” but India opposed, referring to India’s high petroleum tax, which is not called a carbon tax but has a similar impact.
BARBADOS urged for further implementation of decision 1/CP.10 by: considering within adaptation activities the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States; promoting the review and strengthening of LDC´s NAPAs; and increased financial support for national institutional arrangements on adaptation.
On the process to enable the LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, the EU proposed language stating the planning process should not be prescriptive and should facilitate country-driven action.
Belarus, for Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, supported a spin-off group on other matters and EITs.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, emphasized the need to refer to adaptation finance and expressed reservations on fairness indicators.
Calling for a “COP of action,” Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern that financing appears be to be tapering, especially for the LDCs Fund  and the Adaptation Fund.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-LCA and said that parties should strive to have a set of draft decisions by the end of the week.
During the discussion, the US, with Hungary, suggested that capacity building focus on implementation of the FCCC and Protocol, rather than sustainable development.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, called on developed countries to continue the legally-binding nature of their obligations and avoid a gap between commitment periods.
Germany, joined by Sudan, stressed the urgent need for the report’s information to policy makers.
Colombia, Indonesia, Switzerland and others suggested breaking the discussion into what will be financed by the fund and then where finances will come from.
BRAZIL, with INDIA and CHINA, underscored that the level of ambition should be determined by developed countries’ historical responsibility.
COLOMBIA, with MALAYSIA, underscored the importance of keeping REDD on the agenda.
Calling for a “COP of action,” Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries , expressed concern that financing appears to be tapering, especially for the LDC Fund  and the Adaptation Fund.
INDONESIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said this issue had been deliberated at length, but no consensus had been reached.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported, inter alia, an international review process and accounting and reporting of emissions and LULUCF, as well as tradable units or offsets.
With GRENADA and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, CHINA emphasized the role of national governments and international organizations and said technology transfer should be on non- commercial and preferential terms.
With Japan, Canada and the Russian Federation, she supported deletion of text that relates to establishment of a permanent forum under the Subsidiary Body on Implementation .
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, suggested the objective of the decision should be recommending ways to enhance the TEP, and offered initial ideas, such as using existing institutional structures and creating a process to assess the TEMs.
Saudi Arabia, with China, India, Oman and Ethiopia, called for a focus on Annex B and Protocol Article 3.9 .
China, with Grenada, expressed concern that, by calling for ambitious sectoral targets in developing countries, developed countries are stepping away from their obligation to reduce their emissions.
The Philippines requested that all submissions by the G-77/China and its members during the Bonn session be reflected in conference room papers and taken forward to the resumed AWG-LCA.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, clarified that their proposal for a framework for enhanced action does not create new institutions, but gives medium and long-term guidance to, and reviews, existing institutions.
On review of information and possible decisions under FCCC Article 4.2, VENEZUELA reported that consultations with Turkey are ongoing.
BRAZIL suggested that market mechanisms be discussed under the ADP, while the EU raised concerns over this idea.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, recalled that according to the BM, the early stage of the AGBM process includes analysis and assessment but also includes negotiations in parallel.
Saudi Arabia, supported by India, the Republic of Korea, the Maldives and China, proposed increasing the number of Asian Bureau members from five to seven.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested moving away from one-hour sessions.
CANADA, the UK, the US and NEW ZEALAND called for regular reviews of the roster as well as inclusion of gender considerations in the identification of persons to recommend.
India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Pakistan and Sudan supported China’s proposal, while the EU requested the proposed text be bracketed, highlighting, in particular, concern with referencing Convention Article 3.5.
MEXICO and JAPAN also emphasized the need to safeguard environmental integrity.
Canada, Argentina, France and others stressed that the IPCC should use international meetings as outreach vehicles, and that individual governments should disseminate information nationally.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, supported by GRENADA, cautioned against the uncertainties connected with measuring other activities and preferred putting them in Paragraph 3.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , called for short-term commitment cycles, and linkages among mitigation, adaptation, loss and damage, and means of implementation .
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, urged a focus on quantified emission reductions for Annex I parties.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged ensuring that intellectual property rights are not an impediment to technology transfer.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the transparency framework and GST negotiations should address loss and damage.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, opposed by Australia and the US, requested attribution of proposals.
Indonesia, Benin and the Democratic Republic of Congo called for addressing the lack of sink projects under the CDM.
Japan emphasized the need for coordination with the AWG-KP, especially concerning the CDM, while Venezuela stressed the need to keep the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA separate.
  In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiation sessions in: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznán, Poland.
Norway, with the UK, Slovenia and others, questioned this deletion.
The G-77/CHINA and the AFRICAN GROUP said an agreement on the AWG 92s timetable is necessary given the time required for ratification.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said Doha must set out a work plan up to 2015, including milestones.
The US, Pakistan and Kazakhstan supported the proposal made by Turkey and this issue was deferred to SB-14.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, regretted lack of agreement on capacity building.
The EU, Norway, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand supported consideration of the item beyond SBSTA-17.
The EU and Japan proposed global emission reductions of 50% by 2050.
SWITZERLAND and the US noted that all parties and groups feel there are missing elements in the text.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by MAURITIUS, IRAN, ZIMBABWE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, MOROCCO and the PHILIPPINES, called for AIJ to be consistent with national development plans and priorities, particularly in the development of a common reporting framework.
Germany emphasized the need for clarity on what is and what is not included in the sea level rise projections, and Kenya, Sudan, the US, Canada, and others asked that the language remain understandable.
Supported by ARGENTINA, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, JAPAN, ETHIOPIA and MEXICO, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CANADA also proposed deleting a paragraph stating that NAMAs shall not include technologies that have adverse impacts on the environment, such as nuclear power and large-scale hydropower.
GUATEMALA called for a financial mechanism to help maintain forest cover, and DOMINICAN REPUBLIC highlighted GEF assistance for the five-year programme of work on adaptation.
On ratification of the Protocol, New Zealand said it was currently the only Umbrella Group Party to have made a commitment to ratify in time for WSSD, although he predicted that he "will be in good company before too long."
On positive or negative lists of CDM project activities, SENEGAL and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported retaining the option and highlighted the need to improve access to the CDM.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for, inter alia: an increased pace of work on the transparency framework; recognizing linkages between robust accounting for use of ITMOs; and more time allocated for more technically complex items.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, INDONESIA, COLOMBIA and others called for enhancing the facilitation of visas for intersessional meetings, as well as for Cancún.
Ghana, with the US, suggested considering technical issues under the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  and through future decisions.
Hungary inserted "revised" before "guidelines" and added in paragraph 5 "with a view to enhancing the comparability and focus of communications," which was amended further by the Netherlands.
 Nigeria, for the African Group, called for better geographic distribution of CDM projects and more support for non-Annex I communications.
  During the contact group, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, rejected proposals for differentiation among non-Annex I parties.
 Regarding the programme of work, South Africa, for the G-77/China, stressed the urgency of the AWG’s work and called for a focus on “what needs to be done.” China called for a timetable to guide the AWG’s work.
China, for BASIC, said the Kyoto Protocol remains the key component of the international climate regime and is the most important deliverable from Doha.
94 On definitions, discussions centered on whether IPCC Bureau members are countries or persons, with Switzerland and the Russian Federation favoring reference to countries, while Hungary, Canada, Belgium, the Netherlands and Slovenia supported reference to persons.
Barbados, for AOSIS, with Colombia, for Chile, Peru, Costa Rica and Guatemala, and others, supported a political process covering the scaling up and mobilization of climate finance, as well as an intensified and more structured work under the Convention, focusing on sources and options for mobilizing climate finance in the short, medium and long term.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported the Bali roadmap and progress on technological cooperation and deforestation issues.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions  and supported the creation of a NAMA registry.
Tuvalu, on behalf of AOSIS, and the EU, China, Norway, Peru and Malaysia opposed additional activities during the first commitment period.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: an overview of the climate finance architecture; avoiding duplications; and assessing other sources of financing.
South Africa said that, while INDCs are nationally determined, their scope should be determined internationally, and, with Brazil and others, that they should include mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
Making closing statements, Grenada, for AOSIS, called for COP 16 to deliver a comprehensive and ambitious outcome that builds confidence and momentum for an agreement at COP 17 in South Africa.
 CMP 11 Vice-President Sylla informed parties that, since the Secretariat’s statement on 2 December 2015, two  additional instruments of ratification, from Argentina and Sri Lanka, had been received, bringing the total to 57.
Austria, with Australia and Switzerland, noted that the decision text should not give the impression that the IPCC does not have guidelines on these issues, but rather that they are being strengthened and enforced.
The EU, supported by NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, proposed procedures to enhance stakeholder participation, including through interventions and dialogues.
Certain OECD countries, including the US and Australia, could not endorse the AOSIS protocol as the basis for future negotiations because of the targets, timetables and the focus on CO2 emissions rather than GHG emissions as a whole.
Following a proposal by the Maldives, with Bolivia, for including a reference to technology e2 80 9ctransfer, e2 80 9d authors proposed, and participants agreed, to refer to e2 80 9ctechnology development, diffusion and transfer.
The group discussed various examples of past experiences with changes that had led to economic diversification but were not triggered by climate change, such as: the re-definition of the fur industry in Austria due to a change in public perception; the difficult transformation of the Cuban sugarcane industry; and the shift from agriculture to the garment industry in Bangladesh.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said Paris Agreement market mechanisms should move beyond offsetting to contribute to overall mitigation and that proceeds should be directed towards adaptation, while non-market mechanisms should start with fossil fuel subsidy reform and the phase-out of inefficient and polluting technologies.
Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that the provision of funds should be undertaken by the respective thematic boards with overall supervision by the finance board.
CANADA, with NORWAY, supported maintaining the existing definition of additionality.
Malawi, for the LDCs, cautioned against undermining the Marrakesh Accords, but supported a decision on this matter.
The US and Australia said other processes, such as the G-8, the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Change  and the Pacific Islands Forum, could provide useful input into this process.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for a strong compliance mechanism and the application of the Protocol rules to Annex I countries, including LULUCF accounting.
Tajikistan, for the Mountainous Landlocked Developing Countries, Egypt, for the Arab Group, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, Venezuela, for ALBA, Tuvalu, the Philippines, Chile, Kuwait, Bolivia, Malawi, China, India, Singapore and Saudi Arabia supported the agenda proposed by the G-77/China, saying it is organized, inclusive and relevant to both the BAP and the Cancun Agreements, focused and future-looking.
The EU and SWITZERLAND said the Fund should be part of the post-2012 regime and able to attract additional funding.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, urged sufficient time be given for regional and negotiating groups to consider the text.
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, argued that a JI project should be subject to CDM-type scrutiny only where a Party does not comply with Articles 5 and 7, and where these both impact on the project.
The PHILLIPINES, the EU and BOLIVIA highlighted, inter alia: accessibility and scaling up of financial assistance for NAPs.
The Chair introduced document A/AC.237/91/Add.1, which contains the text of proposals tabled at INC-11 by the G-77 and China, the EU and the US.
The EU, US, Canada and others questioned the need for and mandate of such a group.
Emphasizing the importance of the IPCC retaining distance from the policy process, the US, supported by New Zealand, Canada, Saudi Arabia and others, opposed the suggestion.
Brazil underscored the vulnerability of the Secretariat, but the Netherlands cautioned against bureaucracy and potential competition between scientific staff within the Secretariat and the TSUs.
Chile, for AILAC, identified e2 80 9canchoring e2 80 9d as a concept encapsulated by the term e2 80 9cnational schedule.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA supported the use of existing UNFCCC rules of procedure, while noting that one of the key rules has not yet been agreed.
The G-77/CHINA proposed convening a workshop in Warsaw to address unilateral measures, which was opposed by the EU and others, who maintained that the issue is already being addressed in the Forum’s discussions.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said that, although enhanced action on financial resources and investment involved net transfer to developing countries, this did not preclude developing countries from acting themselves.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the important work of the Adaptation Fund.
On differentiation, Argentina, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the African Group, and China suggested INDCs include differentiated information for Annex I, Annex II and non-Annex I parties.
Switzerland, Germany, Italy and Sweden expressed concern on specific entries.
China urged consistency by all WGs on the use of scenarios, with Senegal requesting that the treatment of risk and scenarios be consistent across WGs.
CHINA called for acknowledging that South-South cooperation is not a commitment of parties and, with INDIA and ALGERIA, suggested mobilization and provision of finance be enhanced not e2 80 9cin coordination with, e2 80 9d but rather as e2 80 9cadditional to, e2 80 9d official development assistance.
TANZANIA, with MALAWI, called for rearrangement of the text to emphasize implementation of actions.
INDIA, supported by the G-77/CHINA, suggested including reference to the WMO principles for free data exchange, while the US cautioned against referring to principles established under any one specific organization.
On a paragraph on preparing a negotiating text on the basis of annex I of the draft decision text, CUBA, supported by Malaysia, for the LMDCs, proposed e2 80 9cacknowledging e2 80 9d the work of the ADP and e2 80 9cdeciding that the ADP continue its work in 2015 to finish the elaboration of the draft negotiating text.
MAURITIUS, on behalf of the African Group, BELIZE and CHILE supported AIJ as a supplement to the FCCC.
SWITZERLAND proposed a global carbon tax, with INDIA highlighting difficulties in harmonizing a tax globally.
China, supported by Nigeria, Syria, Oman and Brazil, stressed the need to mobilize funding for the Adaptation Fund.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a consistent approach in the work of the Subsidiary Bodies in order to make meaningful progress on related agenda items such as adaptation, technology, MRV, national communications for both developed and developing countries, and the financial mechanism.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of national communications, improved reporting and review of information, development and transfer of technology, and organization of intergovernmental meetings.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, recalled the G-77/China’s proposal for a technical panel on comparability of developed countries’ mitigation efforts and stressed that commitments should be defined top down, reflect science and be part of the formal outcome of the negotiations.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored efforts undertaken since 2007 to fulfill the AWG-LCA’s mandate and build confidence among parties, including the establishment of transparency requirements for all parties, the Adaptation Framework and the GCF.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed continued REDD+ efforts and looked forward to concluding all outstanding issues under this agenda item, and to engaging in informal consultations on agriculture.
The US supported the Manual serving as a repository of decisions, while FRANCE, for the EU, urged that it be of a technical nature.
During discussions, many countries, including Chad, Comoros, Mali, and Switzerland, called for enhancing and reinforcing the capacity of national focal points.
PAKISTAN requested clarification on how to proceed with different national definitions of equity that reflect domestic circumstances and SINGAPORE clarified that the goal is a definition of equity that reflects different national circumstances.
Angola, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to ensure access to finance.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said work should focus on LULUCF, market mechanisms and common metrics.
Samoa noted the need for making reference to the needs of the most vulnerable countries, and Bangladesh stressed that socioeconomic information on vulnerable populations is essential.
CANADA, the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and US underscored the importance of the timing of SBSTA activities.
The COOK ISLANDS, for AOSIS, stressed that the special needs of Small Island Developing States  should be reflected in the synthesis report.
New Zealand and the EU said this might duplicate the work of the SBI in reviewing national communications and might infringe on parties’ sovereign rights.
South Africa and Tanzania supported the need to strengthen implementation before discussing mandate.
 SRI LANKA said a protocol like AOSIS’s can be adopted.
While the G-77/China stressed the importance of monitoring and defining its objectives, the US highlighted the need to avoid monitoring requirements that hinder implementation, Japan called for streamlining, and the EU highlighted the role of national communications and the comprehensive review of the capacity building framework.
China, for the G-77/China, with many developing countries, called for a capacity-building body or center to, inter alia: provide a more structured and holistic approach to capacity building; analyze gaps in, and support implementation of, activities; monitor implementation; increase coherence and synergies among activities; publicize financing opportunities; assist the LDCs in building climate resilience; and support country-driven actions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with the EU, said that progress on draft negotiating texts is promising.
Belize, for AOSIS, underscored adaptation, technology transfer, and systematic observation, and proposed an IPCC Special Report on SIDS.
NEPAL stressed benefits to local people and, with INDIA, highlighted conservation.
CHINA, BOTSWANA, BOLIVIA, PAKISTAN and others also stressed the AWG-KP’s mandate and called for a simple amendment text.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, appealed to Annex II parties to increase their contributions to the LDC Fund , stressing that the LDCF is expected to support other elements of the LDC work programme in addition to the preparation and implementation of NAPAs.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, said it was not necessary to discuss what constitutes NAMAs.
AUSTRALIA, supported by several others, highlighted ongoing discussions on financing under other bodies, and UKRAINE noted that this issue is also being discussed under the AWG-KP.
Canada, supported by the US, noted the need to involve both communications specialists as well as scientific writers.
BHUTAN, the GAMBIA and UGANDA stressed implementation.
In the SBI closing plenary, Spain, for the EU, emphasized that it was important for COP/MOP 6 to consider temporary provisions.
On supplementarity, the EU, G-77/CHINA and HUNGARY emphasized domestic action as the primary means to fulfill commitments.
NEW ZEALAND, the EU and ICELAND said QELROs are subject to negotiation rather than to a decision on methods to calculate them.
The US, supported by the EU, highlighted an overlap with other sub-groups and suggested focusing on developing operational language.
Peru and others opposed, preferring the more general reference “as soon as possible.” Zambia and others suggested “preferably” by IPCC-35.
With MAURITIUS, UGANDA and HUNGARY, he suggested consideration of outreach and wider communication of the TAR.
MEXICO, KUWAIT and others requested more information on this.
The Russian Federation, supported by the US and Brazil, proposed changing the Secretary to an Executive Secretary to raise the image and prestige of the Panel without creating confusion with the term “executive director,” which is often used in larger international organizations, such as UNEP.
Japan, backed by the UK and others, supported consideration of abrupt changes and irreversibility post-2100, which Co-Chair Masson-Delmotte confirmed would be done.
Norway, the UK, Hungary, Chile, Austria and others, opposed by Brazil, called for referencing forests.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said that work on issues needing further consideration should start immediately.
Supported by NORWAY, the EU and SWITZERLAND, he stressed the importance of a clear focus on NAPAs and policy level, rather than operational level, guidance to the GEF.
On text agreeing on a meeting to facilitate an exchange of views, the US agreed, "in the spirit of compromise," to the EU 92s wish that this should take the form of intersessional consultations rather than a side event.
The US, supported by New Zealand, thought further substantive discussion was necessary.
TUVALU, supported by DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO, expressed concerns over proposals to expand the CDM by relaxing additionality criteria, and highlighted environmental integrity and the need to accrue real, additional and verifiable emission reductions.
 In informal consultations, the US, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, addressed the issue of late payment of dues, seeking information on existing practices in other UN fora.
The CMP then adopted the report of the meeting  and a decision on the expression of gratitude to the government of Qatar and the people of the city of Doha submitted by Poland .
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the Protocol as a central part of the climate change architecture and emphasized that its institutions must be reaffirmed and strengthened through ambitious emission reduction targets for the second and subsequent commitment periods, consistent with the science.
On a proposal by Canada on cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy, the G-77/CHINA said the item was incorrectly worded on the provisional agenda, and it should refer to the report of the workshop on this issue, not to a proposal.
Opposed by TUVALU, the EU recommended recording Tuvalu ef bf bds concerns in the meeting ef bf bds minutes instead of amending the draft conclusions.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed regret that expectations for Poznań had not been met, calling for a radical change in approach.
Sweden, for the European Union , emphasized the need to condense the negotiating text and focus on the key political issues forming the pillars.
JAPAN, the US, AUSTRALIA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, SOUTH AFRICA, the COOK ISLANDS and PANAMA supported the work of the IMO and ICAO to reduce emissions.
Ecuador, with Nicaragua, appreciated efforts on this item, and with Bolivia welcomed the inputs of local communities and indigenous peoples.
Argentina, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, called for the roundtables at the Bangkok session to focus on linkages and urged balanced progress across all items of the PAWP.
With Trinidad and Tobago, he opposed a “facilitative and non-punitive framework,” saying this would hamper implementation.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, inter alia, called for building on the work on the national adaptation plans and the work programme on loss and damage and said too much time was spent on response measures.
BRAZIL stressed the need for preparatory discussions before the AWGLCA begins negotiations on a “shared vision,” and the EU proposed a workshop, a roundtable and a high-level discussion on the issue.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said an aspirational goal would be acceptable if underpinned by binding and ambitious targets for developed countries, including targets of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and at least 50% by 2050.
 The non-Annex I country of Morocco was seen in the corridors explaining that it was Monaco, not Morocco, that had applied for Annex I status, as erroneously reported in ENB yesterday.
CANADA, supported by the US, preferred deciding that the ADP e2 80 9cshould aim to e2 80 9d prepare a negotiating text instead of e2 80 9cshall.
In addition to inviting non-Annex I Parties to benefit from information sharing, SWITZERLAND, with AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported a standing agenda item on P&amp;Ms. SAUDI ARABIA said that discussions should be limited to Annex I Parties.
The introduction of a ceiling is opposed by countries belonging to the "Umbrella Group" ef bf bd a loose alliance of Annex 1 Parties that includes the US, Canada, Australia, Japan, Norway, the Russian Federation and Ukraine ef bf bd as well as by some developing countries.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Bolivia, called for agreement on a subset of goals before agreement on temperature increase and stabilization, highlighting goals for technology and finance, and the need for clarity on how much financing developed countries will provide in the short- and medium-term.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, said although we took first steps in defining the Paris Agreement rulebook we must accelerate our work to meet the urgency of the global challenge of climate change.
He requested the group to allow the Co-Chairs to conclude this and only show the outcome to representatives of the G-77/China, the EU, the US, Saudi Arabia and any interested Parties before presenting it to the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies.
The EU stressed that virtual participation should count towards quorum at JISC meetings, while UKRAINE expressed concern, noting technical and time zone constraints.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, said the conclusions failed to make a clear reference to the COP-7 decision on adverse effects , and stressed the importance of reflecting views of implementation progress on wider activities.
Colombia and the EU suggested the Secretariat compile INDCs in a report.
Sierra Leone said the IPCC should work with the WMO to build capacity of developing country experts, and Germany suggested using existing partnerships between research institutions in developed and developing countries to assist in these efforts.
Switzerland, for the EIG, recognized the COP Presidency’s efforts to ensure a transparent, inclusive and result-oriented process, and welcomed the AWG-LCA Chair’s new text.
e2 80 9d The US, with AUSTRALIA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the EU and others, opposed by the LDCs, proposed progress made e2 80 9cpursuant to Decision 1/CP.17.
 SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, stressed the need to concentrate on analysis and assessment activities during AGBM 2, and questioned whether negotiations could proceed in absence of adequate information.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, called for additional support for the Fund.
On methodological issues, the US and EU stressed keeping the guidelines under review and incorporating additional methodological issues raised by the Kyoto Protocol.
TUVALU supported further work on New Zealand’s proposal, emphasizing the need for clarification on, inter alia, defining forests and the potential perverse incentives for the conversion of natural forests into productive ones.
BRAZIL and AOSIS warned against e2 80 9cministerial fatigue.
SENEGAL, BOLIVIA, BURKINA FASO and THAILAND stressed the importance of small-scale projects that benefit local communities.
Brazil stressed the need for having text forwarded to the COP and Costa Rica expressed willingness to start negotiations at “another level.”
China and Saudi Arabia steadfastly opposed a confidence statement in which the authors had stated with “very high confidence” that many natural systems are being affected by regional climate change.
BANGLADESH called for focusing on proposals that highlight the needs of LDCs and SIDS.
The US, with Hungary, noted the importance of clearly defining the functions of a nominations committee.
The Netherlands, on behalf of the EU, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, expressed continued commitment to addressing climate change and highlighted the launch of the EU emissions trading scheme in January 2005.
Mali, for the African Group, stressed the linkages among agenda items and asked for a non-prescriptive Co-Chairs’ note to help the negotiations’ progress.
 Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for the development and deployment of adaptation technologies, and capacity building and training.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, presented suggestions for streamlining the section on institutional arrangements, and called for lessons to be drawn from the Protocol.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND opposed referencing remedies, with NEW ZEALAND stating that such reference is premature.
THAILAND and the US emphasized agro-forestry.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, also highlighted issues related to the LDC Fund and continued support for NAPAs.
AOSIS, the EU and Norway raised concerns over environmental integrity and opposed proposals that would exempt projects from meeting the requirement of additionality.
Norway, the UK, South Africa, Slovenia and others supported the concept of rapid updates, particularly in order to meet the UNFCCC’s needs, although others, including Brazil, the US and Mali, expressed concerns, including on how to carry them out credibly and accurately, the frequency of availability of new information, review procedures and the additional workload for authors.
On  , Brazil, for the G-77/China, with Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and India, supported deleting the sub-section on national schedules, explaining that it contains ideas not pertinent to sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP.
Australia, supported by Germany, called for addressing the structural foundations of the budget beyond government contributions and for a sound look at priorities, in particular given financial constraints in national economies around the world.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported by the EU and JAPAN, opposed adjourning the meeting.
CANADA expressed a preference for discussing the issue under the AWG-LCA, and AUSTRALIA emphasized that the focus in the AWG-KP must be on Annex I domestic emissions.
Opposing Canada 92s SBSTA-16 proposal to change the baseline from 1989 to 1999, the EU stressed its support for the definitions set out in the Marrakesh Accords.
Indonesia looked forward to the full implementation of REDD+ and, supported by YOUNGOs and Mexico, stressed the importance of the LCIP, with Mexico lamenting lack of progress.
Canada and the US, opposed by Pakistan and India, said this section should be considered at a later stage.
 SWITZERLAND: Ruth Dreifuss, Federal Councillor and Head, Federal Department of the Interior, recommended that the COP endorse the SAR and invited countries whose economic development is sufficient to join the OECD to voluntarily fulfill Annex I responsibilities.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, described the number of INDCs as “a demonstration of our collective commitments” and sought a way to reflect differentiation in line with modern day realities.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted three main pillars of a Doha outcome: an ambitious second commitment period that would allow for a higher level of ambition from all Annex I parties; finance under the AWG-LCA; and a balanced treatment of all elements under the ADP.
The PHILIPPINES, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, rejected this procedure to consider these financial issues outside their relevant contact groups, stating that it was neither transparent nor democratic.
 Participants agreed to language proposed by the UK, supported by Canada and Norway, to clarify that the Report concerns scientific progress since the TAR.
Brazil urged considering existing technologies and undertaking technological research in developing countries and, with Canada, called for analyzing experiences in other international fora.
Chile, for AILAC, proposed that the scope of contributions be defined clearly in the new agreement providing different nuances to mitigation, adaption and MOI.
SAMOA supported this text, while the US, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND opposed it.
The Philippines, with Nigeria, emphasized loss and damage as critical, and said it must stand alone in the text and not be considered as part of adaptation.
Bangladesh, Ghana, Egypt and others supported developing an adaptation protocol.
On triggers, most countries, including Iran, New Zealand, Brazil, Pakistan and the US, highlighted the committee has to be self-triggered, while other options were also proposed.
Brazil supported adoption of the documents, underlining that they are “balanced in their essence, although not perfect.” Argentina supported the documents, stressing that they are reasonable, although should be improved in South Africa.
As the meeting resumed, the G-77/CHINA, BELIZE, CANADA, the US, the EU and others, welcomed the new text as the basis for further work.
Ghana, for the G-77/China, wanted the body to be under the authority of the COP and to submit reports both to SBSTA and SBI.
Canada, with the EU and G-77/China, said governments must respond to the observation needs of the UNFCCC.
AIJ: The G-77/CHINA supported the continuation of the pilot phase and, with ZAMBIA, highlighted the imbalance in the geographical distribution of AIJ projects.
Saint Lucia, Jamaica and FWCC opposed, noting the importance of considering losses that are difficult to monetize.
Several parties, including JAPAN, TUVALU and Slovenia, for the EU, identified the need to address international aviation and maritime transport emissions.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by JAPAN, insisted that the workshop should focus only on Annex I Parties 92 projections.
JAPAN, supported by KAZAKHSTAN, BOTSWANA, the US, CANADA, BENIN, ICELAND, HONDURAS and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested that President Szyszko be empowered to appoint a special facilitator to assist negotiations and help Parties realize the BAPA by COP-6.
Tanzania, speaking for the Least Developed Countries, stated that the G-77/China did not have a consensus position on policies and measures.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed negotiating adaptation and mitigation matters in a balanced manner and ensuring a “package” can be reached by 2018.
The G-77/CHINA said it is interested in technologies that can be released to the public domain, and CHINA stated that it would not accept any linkage between public domain technologies and property rights.
BANGLADESH described the US proposal as a “better packaging” of the proposal by Mexico for a green fund.
Colombia emphasized its support for a document that Costa Rica had presented earlier in the day, outlining the views of 14 Latin American countries regarding implementation of the CDM.
Revisiting SAMOA 92s proposal for the consideration of stakeholders in the Executive Board 92s project reviews, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the EU and SWITZERLAND, proposed that it be the Board 92s responsibility to elaborate procedures for triggering reviews.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said he supported adoption of a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and a legally-binding framework.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and KUWAIT called for equity and fair burden sharing.
On registries, INDIA, opposed by the US, argued that there was no need for a separate addendum.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that agreement on the work by the AWG-KP should be part of a comprehensive outcome considering the AWG-LCA.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for regional adaptation platforms, while New Zealand suggested strengthening existing regional initiatives.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, opposed this and any attempted linkage with the agenda item on the review of non-Annex I communications that was being held in abeyance.
However, the EU, the US and the UK did not want to accord "amendment" status to the G-77 proposals since there had been no substantive debate.
Small island developing States, such as Papua New Guinea, the Marshall Islands, Solomon Islands, Samoa, Vanuatu, Micronesia, Mauritius, Jamaica and the Maldives, emphasized their vulnerability to the effects of climate change, particularly sea level rise.
The UK, opposed by the US, suggested emphasizing the limited adaptation capacity of small holders and subsistence farmers, and the complex, localized impacts that poor communities suffer.
The US, UK and CHINA suggested that the group consider timing issues as well.
The Philippines called for including reference to tropical cyclones, while Mali requested reference to drought.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged flexibility and called for progress on a NAMA registry.
The Bahamas, with Lebanon, said Ph.D. students could be encouraged to work on topics relevant to the work of the IPCC such as the impacts of 1.5 c2 b0C increase in warming.
On renewable energy, CANADA, with the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, argued that no specific technology should be promoted.
On establishing a fund for climate-related disaster relief, the EU and the US said that such a fund could add complexity to the provision of funding due to the recognized difficulty in distinguishing between natural and human-induced climate disasters.
The Bahamas, supported by the UK, stressed that the document, negotiated by leaders, was important and that a mechanism needed to be found so that the financial offers could be operationalized.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the importance of multilateral solutions and supported working through the IMO and ICAO while respecting the principles of the Convention and avoiding unilateral measures.
The US and AUSTRALIA noted that the scientific and technical evaluation from the IPCC indicated that developed country actions would be insufficient to meet the aims of the Convention, and the US incorporated this into its submission.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, called for indicating that the AWG-LCA would also meet in conjunction with COP 16.
While the EU sought to set out a process that might include a workshop or other experts 92 event, some other Parties, including the US, questioned the need for a workshop.
The EU and Australia also underlined the importance of addressing LULUCF.
New Zealand, the US, Australia and the EU proposed deleting paragraphs on a “Forum on Accelerated Implementation of Enhanced pre-2020 Climate Action.”
Kenya, for the AFRICA GROUP, pressed for simplified CDM modalities and urgent action on technology transfer and adaptation.
The EU and JAPAN stressed co-ordination of existing sources of funding.
CHINA and BRAZIL sought accelerated funding of second national communications.
Many parties called for developed countries to lead in emission reductions, and many developing countries, including South Africa, India, Brazil and China, said that existing mitigation actions in developing countries must be recognized.
The EU and others, opposed by Japan, suggested deleting text on converting CDM projects into joint implementation  projects.
Tuvalu, with New Zealand, the African Group and others, said greatest consideration should be paid to spillover effects on poorer countries.
To ensure balance, Germany, supported by Norway, also called for putting in a footnote the full text of the other principles referred to in the decision.
Saudi Arabia emphasized adaptation to response measures, and Canada, the EU and many others stressed the need to engage experts and practitioners and encourage long-term cooperation.
Noting a sense of urgency and the need to send a positive signal to the public, the US, with the UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Canada, Slovenia and others, called for implementation “no later” than the 35th session.
TANZANIA, with the G-77/CHINA, suggested adaptation be seen in the context of sustainable development.
GREECE, BELGIUM, SPAIN and SLOVENIA supported renewable energy and energy efficiency.
On the issue of supplementarity, Japan and the US urged against renegotiating the Protocol.
Argentina for the G-77/China, Ghana for the African Group, and Saudi Arabia expressed concern about linking this item to the ADP, with Singapore suggesting the draft decision should focus on pre-2020 measures.
AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, proposed moving the preambular text on the mechanisms being supplementary to domestic action to the operative part and then inserting an option maintaining the status quo.
SINGAPORE and BRAZIL called for including text on an open international economic system and on parties not using trade measures that lead to arbitrary discrimination or constitute disguised trade restrictions.
AFGHANISTAN highlighted limiting the export of timber and, with BOLIVIA, underscored participation of indigenous peoples.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged the development of a workplan at this session.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND, the US, CANADA, JAPAN and others expressed reservations about the sub-section on institutional arrangements.
 The EU: Brendan Howlin, Minister for the Environment of Ireland, reaffirmed the EU’s commitment to an ambitious outcome to the Berlin Mandate.
COLOMBIA, PANAMA, and others suggested including a “place mark” to allow for discussion of REDD in the future.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CANADA supported seller liability.
The EU stressed the need for consistency and symmetry within all definitions, while CHINA said it would be premature to agree on definitions relevant to Protocol Article 3.4 .
Following informal consultations, Colombia presented compromise text on modalities for other developing countries that are not LDCs and on the provision of financial and technical support to those countries.
Norway, Canada, Australia, Japan and New Zealand said the LMDCs CRP goes beyond the Warsaw mandate, with Australia saying BAP implementation is addressed elsewhere.
He explained that emissions from aviation will be included in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme  and noted interest from California to link its carbon trading initiative to the EU ETS.
The LDCs recommended inserting a caveat for LDCs and small island developing states on the inclusion of mitigation in INDCs.
ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA, IRAN, Belize, for AOSIS, and SENEGAL called for establishing a link between the technology section and MOI.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, proposed that the UNFCCC Secretariat regularly report on relevant WTO activities.
Saying that scientists in his delegation disagreed, China, supported by Saudi Arabia, continued to oppose the 93very high 94 confidence level.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for, inter alia: further clarity on the AWG-LCA outcome; maintaining a rules-based system; and enhancing the environmental integrity of the regime in areas such as land use, land-use change and forestry  and the flexible mechanisms.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs: called for a standing agenda item for loss and damage; lamented insufficiency of resources in the LDC Fund; and called for ensuring the sustainability of the Adaptation Fund’s operations.
India, for the LMDCs, with Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested: replacing e2 80 9cstarting in 2019, should consider quantitative considerations of MOI e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cshall provide, by the first quarter of 2015, information under annex II, e2 80 9d and referencing the provision of MOI to developing countries for a timely preparation of their INDCs.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested work leading to a technical synthesis and a summary for policy makers to inform ministerials.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and the US emphasized that the aggregate ambition assessment should be part of the agreement, while specific modalities could be established in future decisions.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA and BURKINA FASO, said there was no group support for an item on voluntary commitments and, with CHINA,called for transparency in drafting high-level statements.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, emphasized the importance of this issue to developing countries and requested the Secretariat to prepare text on this issue.
In its decision, the COP: decides to hold COP 16 and COP/MOP 6 from 29 November - 10 December 2010, in Mexico City, Mexico; recalls that COP 17 and COP/MOP 7 will be held from 28 November - 9 December 2011, in South Africa; and invites parties to come forth with offers to hold COP 18 and COP/MOP 8.
 The PHILIPPINES said the G-77/China wanted to tailor a response to the SBI.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, proposed adding in the conclusions that the SBI notes the deep concerns raised by several developing countries in accessing the necessary financial resources to fulfill their obligations under the Convention.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized general principles, referencing the purpose of the global stocktake and the Convention.
Australia, with the EU and US, said they had agreed to a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 on the understanding that it would be a “joint” workshop with decision 1/CP.10, but that it could be worded as either a workshop where the issues were “considered together” or “back-to-back.” Saudi Arabia argued that these were distinct issues that should not be linked.
With CHINA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA, ARGENTINA, INDIA and others, opposed by the EU, SINGAPORE, MEXICO, AUSTRALIA and the US, he also suggested considering trade measures.
SWITZERLAND suggested that Parties to the Convention and Parties to the protocol should hold meetings in conjunction, but the US and NEW ZEALAND specified that only Parties to the protocol should take decisions on it.
Supported by the US, WGIII Vice Chair Reisinger, the Marshall Islands, Germany, and Jamaica, she called for removing this paragraph in the decision and instead referring to a comparison with 2     c2 b0C or higher in the outline, on the relevant bullets on impacts and emissions pathways.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA, JAPAN and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested working in smaller groups to facilitate discussions.
DENMARK, with BELGIUM, called for easy access to graphs and tables in the final report, and asked that the translation of figure text be facilitated.
Switzerland, Russia, Norway, Japan, Poland, Canada and Australia supported or expanded on various aspects of the US position.
On capacity building, China, for the G-77/CHINA, supported further discussion on, inter alia: institutions, financial mechanisms, monitoring and performance tools.
On Chapter 10 on Industry, Switzerland and the UK requested inclusion of dematerialization , while Saudi Arabia said that this idea could be captured by the term “innovation” in materials.
CANADA expressed confidence that these concerns can be met and, with JAPAN, stressed inclusion of Article 3.4 activities in the first commitment period as a condition for ratification of the Protocol.
CHINA, supported by BOTSWANA and SENEGAL, and opposed by the EU and SRI LANKA, proposed that NGOs only be allowed to make submissions on the work programme if requested to do so by their national focal points.
On risk reduction, the Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to speed up the pace of work on this issue.
Mali, Benin, Sudan and others welcomed the proposal.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , highlighted the need for clarity on legal issues in order to have a “seamless continuation” of the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and QATAR observed that they had both offered to host COP 18 and COP/MOP 8 and said they were consulting bilaterally on the matter.
The EU and Colombia, for AILAC, said the suggestion was useful and but should be analyzed later.
The PHILIPPINES, with the US, supported investigating connections between climate change and extreme weather events, while NIGERIA stressed the need for preparedness to cope with such events in developing countries.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed significant action by AOSIS members and other developing countries to adapt to the impacts of climate change without support.
Uganda called for a formal and binding instrument on technology, Iceland emphasized climate friendly technologies as a way to reduce emissions without halting economic growth, and Maldives called for modern cleaner technologies.
Benin and Peru echoed these concerns.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with proposals to link NAMAs with the carbon market and noted that MRV of NAMA support by developed countries requires more consideration.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored that COP 15 gave vital political direction to take the negotiations forward and that the Copenhagen Accord contains a package of actions agreed by countries at the very highest level.
On elements, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for further reflection of the financial and other costs of adaptation efforts and actions, noting that some developing countries undertake adaptation actions without MOI and this information could be useful.
Australia and Canada called for a catalytic and facilitative role for the UNFCCC.
Opposed by NEW ZEALAND and supported by INDIA, he added that, pending agreement of this issue in the LULUCF group, any reference to Article 3.4 should be bracketed.
The EIG, the LDCs and AILAC supported capturing the roundtables’ outcomes in informal notes; the LMDCs opposed.
 The EU, supported by ICELAND, SWITZERLAND and CHILE, indicated its intention to table a draft decision on enhancing the role of women in climate change decision-making under the UNFCCC.
IPCC Secretary Christ said that IPCC-25 would be held either from 26-28 April 2006, in Mauritius, or, one week later in Nairobi, Kenya, and that confirmation of the venue would be posted on the IPCC web site.
On markets, CHINA said they should not be used to pass responsibility to developing countries, and SAUDI ARABIA and the LDCs stressed that markets should not substitute mitigation activities in developed countries.
The US elaborated that governance arrangements for the new fund would be structured to give a balanced representation of net contributors and net recipients, and indicated that all parties, except the LDCs, would contribute to the fund in line with capabilities but that contributions would not be mandatory.
On POLAND b4s suggestion to reflect the priorities of economies in transition in the text, BRAZIL said this was not explicitly reflected in UNFCCC Article 4.5, which refers to developing countries in particular.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged Annex I parties to commit themselves to scaled-up emission reduction objectives in line with science and the reports of the IPCC.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed the need for concerted efforts by both Annex I and non-Annex I parties.
Saint Lucia supported further consideration of trade-offs and benefits, and, supported by Germany, requested removing solar radiation management from a bullet point addressing ethics and governance of land.
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan stressed the need to consider the impact of Annex I mitigation activities on developing countries.
MICRONESIA, ITALY, CHILE, LITHUANIA, CYPRUS and the SOLOMON ISLANDS stated that they were in the process of ratifying the Protocol.
With amendments proposed by Australia and Japan, Parties adopted the draft decision.
NIGERIA objected to the US proposal for alternating ministerial and non-ministerial COPs.
BRAZIL said that basis for the Secretariat\'s work on guidelines could be found in the approach paper submitted by the G-77 and China.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the urgency of the AWG’s work and called for a focus on “what needs to be done.” He proposed discussing mitigation potentials in Bonn, possible ranges in Vienna, and means for achieving these in Bali.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for: balance between mitigation and adaptation; and finance to ensure ambition is enhanced, highlighting public long-term finance and not transferring the financing burden to developing countries.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the meeting should focus only on rules that will apply during the second commitment period and necessary amendments, and refer consequential amendments to the SBS for future consideration.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the SBSTA should receive the information, acknowledge receipt and pass on the report to the COP.
The US, Switzerland and Australia stated that this agenda item is limited to mitigation.
BOLIVIA, ARGENTINA, CUBA, JORDAN, INDIA and KUWAIT opposed including issues that are not in the Convention, such as net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient economies.
The EU underlined the role of the carbon market, innovative financing and leveraging private investments, and suggested examining proposals before the Ghana meeting.
Switzerland, supported by Dominica, Tanzania, the US, Saudi Arabia and the Maldives, opposed specifying the nature of the collaboration, noting it was too limiting.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for clarity on how work in the group would be conducted in 2012, noting that many of the items on the proposed agenda had already been addressed.
A group discussion on Saturday, 6 June, facilitated by Co-Facilitator Baashan, explored unpacking proposals from Australia, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs.
The US, CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the meeting 92s tasks include preparing submissions due by 1 August 2000, and in this context, discussing the elements of a draft decision of COP-6 provides guidance.
The EU, supported by INDONESIA, proposed that the SBSTA develop terms of reference for IPCC work on CDM modalities for LULUCF during its current session.
Canada, opposed by Switzerland and the EU, proposed deleting reference in the draft COP decision on awareness of international "environmental" agreements and leaving only "international agreements."
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for reference to the global temperature goal.
AOSIS and the UMBRELLA GROUP called for focused submissions.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged parties to increase financial contributions to implement adaptation work and to complete the review of the WIM.
South Africa and Tanzania said the adaptation levy on the CDM should also apply to the other mechanisms.
Saudi Arabia and Australia expressed disappointment that agreement was not reached.
INDONESIA and the EU called for clarification on the division of work on REDD under the SBSTA and AWG-LCA.
New Zealand, with Switzerland, called for concluding the consideration of the Co-Chairs’ non-paper, noting it covers most of the elements of the CRP.
On adaptation, Bangladesh, for LDCs, also drew attention to gaps in terms of scaling up support, transparency, accounting, risk management and risk reduction strategies.
CHINA opposed establishing a group of countries in addition to Annexes I and II and the AFRICAN GROUP expressed concern over the EU’s proposal with regard to the possible “graduation” of parties.
The EU urged parties to move forward on implementing the Cancun Agreements and supported Colombia’s proposal.
Delegates agreed to include in the caption text proposed by Cuba and New Zealand stating that non-technological practices, which are cross-cutting, such as lifestyle changes, are not included, but addressed in the new paragraph on lifestyle changes.
 , Switzerland, supported by India, asked for language clarifying that outcomes were “projected” to convey the involvement of scenarios, and this change was made.
 , Germany, France, Canada, Grenada, Switzerland, the EU, and Belgium called for reinserting text from the FGD on the significantly decreased share of primary energy from coal under pathways consistent with 1.5 c2 b0C, given its high confidence level and relevance.
The EU, Switzerland, Norway and others supported launching a review process, while the G-77/China advocated a review 93at 94 COP 12, as stated in Protocol Article 9.
Supporting TUVALU, BRAZIL said that if activities under Article 3.4  were expanded, the IPCC should be invited to assess the issue of “factoring out” to enhance understanding of anthropogenic versus natural carbon stock changes.
On paragraph 8 , delegates agreed, based on proposals from GHANA and the EU, the Committee should comprise persons nominated by governments who are experts in relevant fields, such as science, socio-economics and the environment.
The EU and JAPAN emphasized the importance of private sector involvement.
Canada, opposed by the G-77/China, EU, CG-11 and Norway, proposed a draft decision to permit it to receive assigned amount units equivalent to the global environmental benefit created by its exports of cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy in the first commitment period, not exceeding 70 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent annually .
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that some mitigation actions, such as addressing energy efficiency, do not fall under the mandates of existing multilateral bodies, and suggested the CTCN could work on energy efficiency issues.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a decision on finance, scaling up mitigation and support for adaptation.
On identification of decision text, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said this step should be preceded by a discussion on substance.
The 19th BASIC Ministerial Meeting took place from 8-10 October 2014, in Sun City, South Africa.
On the way forward, ECUADOR supported submissions, with the US and EU expressing reservations.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US.
The G-77/China said the draft APA conclusions should remain as they are, and proposed “putting them aside.” He suggested consultations on where and how to address the African Group’s proposal.
With AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, the US said the overall compliance procedure should be considered before the expedited procedure.
Spain emphasized the need for temporal and spatial disaggregation of scenarios, and Chile emphasized the relevance of regional scenarios for decision makers.
The LDCs, with BRAZIL, CHINA, the ARAB GROUP, the AFRICAN GROUP and the LMDCs, emphasized that presentation of INDCs by developing countries is contingent on support.
On Outcomes and Consequences, Saudi Arabia, with China, said that every reference to "Party," with respect to eligibility requirements, should be prefaced by "Annex I."
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported discussing modalities and procedures for  public registry/-ies for NDCs and adaptation communications in one contact group, and urged prioritizing the annual focus of the PCCB.
AUSTRALIA highlighted support measures for LDCs and the US emphasized the need for knowledge-sharing on best practices in adaptation.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, EU, CG-11 and NORWAY, proposed a draft decision to permit it to receive assigned amount units equivalent to the global environmental benefit created by its exports of cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy in the first commitment period, not exceeding 70 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent annually .
Algeria, for the African Group, said GEF reforms are encouraging but inadequate, noting the need to strengthen urgent priorities for beneficiaries.
SAUDI ARABIA, with VENEZUELA, CHINA and QATAR, said the enforcement branch 92s mandate should include determination of whether an Annex I Party is in non-compliance with FCCC Article 3.14 .
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND, SWITZERLAND and others emphasized the importance of a shared vision, and NEW ZEALAND identified long-term goal, such as emissions targets or maximum temperature goals, as a key component of a shared vision.
 Many parties, including Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Nauru, for AOSIS, noted the need to finalize procedures of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
The EU, opposed by ARGENTINA and VENEZUELA, and supported by NEW ZEALAND and others, proposed a paragraph establishing new market-based mechanisms.
Brazil and Chile suggested deleting both examples, as well as the list of impacts.
Many also expressed support for the SAR and made specific comments, including the US, CANADA, ARGENTINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, BANGLADESH, NORWAY, FIJI, URUGUAY, MAURITIUS, JAPAN, BENIN, MYANMAR, BULGARIA and GREENPEACE.
Australia, New Zealand and the US said adaptation and mitigation could be considered as separate agenda items.
Trinidad and Tobago said the submission of the AOSIS draft protocol must be registered.
GHANA, with SAUDI ARABIA, urged considering expanding the list of greenhouse gases.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US called for a single transparency system applicable to all.
They also discussed the use of criteria and quantitative parameters to assess the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms and the call by the G-77/China and Saudi Arabia for an assessment of the actions of Annex I Parties in striving to implement P&amp;Ms in such a way as to minimize adverse effects.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with JAPAN, ZAMBIA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and ETHIOPIA, highlighted the need to improve the geographical distribution of the CDM and emphasized that LULUCF provides this opportunity.
SAMOA and MICRONESIA argued that countries should be prohibited from offsetting their obligations through activities that are neither measurable nor permanent.
Mexico and the Republic of Korea have also submitted their second national communications.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, underlined the work remaining to meet the 2018 deadline and looked forward to engaging in work under the Fiji Momentum for Implementation.
NIGERIA expressed concern that different transaction costs would reduce CDM take-up and, with INDIA and CHINA, proposed similar requirements for JI.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the Group of 77 and China , said developed countries should take the lead in combating climate change.
Norway, the Russian Federation, New Zealand and others noted that where emission reductions take place is irrelevant for the atmosphere.
Swaziland, for the African Group, stated that, inter alia: adaptation remains the highest priority for Africa; work on agriculture must be consistent with the desire to improve food security and the livelihood of local communities; a financing barrier exists for REDD+ implementation in Africa; and that parties should be commended for constructive discussions on response measures.
 On temperature adjustments, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, INDIA and JAPAN favored unadjusted emissions reporting in inventories and a separate method for treating adjustments.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested adding a footnote to the options indicating they may require a Protocol amendment and said, with CHINA disagreeing, that this is not the right place or time for these discussions.
Nicaragua and Viet Nam called for a preambular reference to the decision being under the Convention.
MICRONESIA, ROMANIA and the MARSHALL ISLANDS urged flexibility for developing countries to apply the revised guidelines.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA agreed that the AWG-KP should move forward on its own, and proposed using either the public announcements by the US or other numbers, such as a 25% or 45% reduction, as an assumption.
CANADA, with ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, stated that whereas broad cooperation between the conventions was desirable, it is still unclear how it would work, and preferred retaining the current language.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, proposed indicating that the basis for a new negotiating text should conform to decision 1/CP.15, which requests the AWG-LCA to continue its work, drawing on the report of the AWG-LCA to COP 15, as well as work undertaken by the COP on the basis of that report.
Others, including Australia, the EU, Switzerland and New Zealand, emphasized that the need to discuss all proposed amendments in the Chair’s text and emphasized that as they prepare to take on obligations for economy-wide emission reductions, they require clarity on what these commitments would entail.
With SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES, the G-77/CHINA proposed adding “learning by doing” as a principle, and COLOMBIA noted that principles should be of a general nature.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested that workshops could address all thematic areas in a combined approach, rather than addressing one theme only.
 This group met to continue considering the Co-Chair 92s proposed draft conclusions, which had been revised to include proposals by the G-77/CHINA and EU.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged against “backsliding” and lamented the lack of agreement to “move on essential work” in the second week.
The ToR, attached as an annex to the decision, specify that the task group, co-chaired by France and Mexico, will, inter alia:
AOSIS and SOUTH AFRICA stressed the immediate need for financing.
With the UK, NEW ZEALAND and SOUTH AFRICA, he suggested changing the language on the last proposed objective to read: "to determine" and address non-compliance.
SWITZERLAND objected to a US proposal to delete the term "equitable" in describing the process of technology transfer, given the diversity of characteristics of developing countries and regions.
AOSIS emphasized the group’s deep disappointment with the numbers presented thus far, which represents a collective ambition of 11-18% below 1990 levels by 2020 and said this would lead to a temperature increase of “3ºC or worse.” CHINA recalled the history of the UNFCCC process, indicating that as soon as an instrument has been adopted, “efforts get underway to undermine it” and Annex I countries attempt to move away from their historical responsibility.
On factoring out, the US and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA and AOSIS, welcomed an alternative proposal by AUSTRALIA and CANADA that addresses LULUCF issues broadly.
  Progress on the implementation of activities under decision 5/CP.7: The EU, US and AUSTRALIA noted activities that have taken place to implement decision 5/CP.7, including workshops and the third GEF replenishment, and welcomed an exchange of views on this issue during COP-9.
SINGAPORE cautioned parties against transforming the workshop into a “proxy for negotiating issues.” COSTA RICA called for updates on the size of the gap and studies on mitigation potential.
It was also agreed that Mauritania would be the Chair of the Subsidiary Body on Implementation and Hungary would be the Chair of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific and Technological Advice.
An informal group, chaired by the Ministers from South Africa and Denmark and assisted by SBI Chair John Ashe, was established.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, stressed the need for practical adaptation activities, in addition to adaptation planning.
Algeria, for the African Group, the Philippines, Argentina, Nicaragua and other developing countries called for establishing a spin-off group on adaptation, noting the need to further consider NAPs for developing countries that are not LDCs.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, urged developed countries to avoid climate-related trade discrimination.
 The Fiji/Bonn Climate Change Conference convened from 6-17 November 2017 in Bonn, Germany, under the Presidency of Fiji.
MALDIVES described itself as a “front line” State for climate change and the MARSHALL ISLANDS drew attention to regional studies on sea level rises that correlate closely with SAR findings.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of demonstrating that work is progressing given the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement, and called for accelerating the implementation of pre-2020 actions, and enhancing MOI provision.
They were divided over exact membership numbers, with the EU, SLOVENIA, the US and others favoring 15 or fewer members for administrative efficiency while the G-77/CHINA called for 25 members to allow the inclusion of a broader competence base and avoid difficulties with constituting a separate roster of experts.
 The EU, the G-77/CHINA, VENEZUELA, SWITZERLAND, the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, SAUDI ARABIA and MALAYSIA stated a preference for economy of institutions such as use of the same COP, SBSTA and Secretariat.
AUSTRALIA was prepared to accept the redrafted text as it was read initially, in the spirit of compromise, but added that an explicit reference to the G-77 and China paper could be made without precluding others by referring to the specific document number.
 The US, supported by the EU, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, objected to the proposal on substantive, rather than procedural, grounds.
Poland said they have decoupled economic growth from GHG emissions, and are currently more than 30% below 1988 emission levels, but need to increase energy efficiency to match the EU’s efficiency levels.
GERMANY, supported by NORWAY, requested more time to consider the revisions contained in IPCC-XXV/Doc.
Controversies emerged, however, between the EU and China and others over the mandate of the AWG-KP to consider sectoral approaches.
On Inventory Management, CANADA noted the lack of reference to confidential information, and JAPAN said the extent of, and access to, confidential information is resolved under Article 8.
SOUTH AFRICA and UGANDA rejected the G-77/CHINA position, saying they were unaware the group had discussed the new proposal.
NORWAY stressed challenges in the transport sector and, with the EU, highlighted the co-benefits of mitigation measures.
IRAN noted this proposal and said that, dependent on the sentiment within the G-77/ CHINA, it provided ground for further movement on this issue.
Australia, supported by Canada, proposed moving this preamble to the operative part of the text and then inserting an option maintaining the status quo.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stated preference for an omnibus decision in 2018.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed adding a procedural paragraph that would list work to be done.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, said a shared vision should prevent further impacts on SIDS and LDCs.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, and Colombia, for AILAC, called for addressing linkages among issues, and clarity on the format of the decision or decisions envisaged for COP 24.
She opposed a possible screening role by the COP/MOP and said it was difficult to distinguish between a COP/MOP committee, as suggested by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, and a COP/MOP-established compliance body.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called, inter alia, for: guidance from the UNFCCC; coordinated efforts by developing and developed countries; social and environmental safeguards; the avoidance of perverse incentives; and policies to tackle underlying drivers.
They also discussed case studies that highlighted, inter alia, women e2 80 99s role in: installing and repairing solar power systems in Mozambique; participating in REDD+ projects in Sudan; and managing forests in Ecuador.
The EU and others, opposed by JAPAN, suggested deleting text on converting CDM projects into joint implementation projects.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by POLAND, SWITZERLAND, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CANADA, advocated deleting a paragraph inviting Parties to consider and submit their views on the workshop, and on further action to advance the work on P&amp;Ms.
Venezuela and Bolivia opposed reference to markets and the price of carbon.
 In the afternoon contact group on LULUCF, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the G-77/China’s proposal on constructing reference levels.
  In Tuesday morning’s informal plenary session, AWGLCA Chair Machado proposed focusing on a “shared vision.” BRAZIL, the PHILIPPINES, CUBA, INDIA and others emphasized the importance of the Convention’s principles and commitments in defining a shared vision.
TUVALU and ARGENTINA supported further work on maritime and aviation transport emissions but urged considering implications of their coverage, such as to tourism.
The US, SWITZERLAND and CANADA opposed current exclusion of NGOs from the contact group on flexibility mechanisms.
BRAZIL opposed linking Article 6 to Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation , while PANAMA and BELIZE supported such a link.
Thailand and Qatar noted that the text was unbalanced.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, called for concluding work on the Registry.
Norway, Chile, Canada, Austria and Australia requested deletion of the sentence, citing inaccuracies.
Spain, for the EU, identified the need to discuss legal formalization of emission reduction targets and clarify the pledges, including the covered sources and greenhouse gases .
Sudan, for the G-77/China, said the outcome from Bonn should be a “Bonn parties’ text,” not a Chair’s revised negotiating text.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed economic and social impacts of trade and trade-related measures adopted by developed countries.
BRAZIL and TUVALU opposed amendments to the Protocol and noted that changes needed to ensure transparency, simplicity and scientific soundness could be made through COP/MOP decisions.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to complete the work on the technical building blocks for REDD+ actions, particularly MRV and national forest monitoring systems.
The US and AUSTRALIA opposed inclusion of "relevant provisions," noting that this would imply requirements rather than guidance.
South Africa, for BASIC, stressed that 2012 should focus on the Kyoto Protocol amendment, the adoption of an agreed outcome under the AWG-LCA, and the launching of the Durban Platform.
Citing the need for transparency and accountability, Belgium and Denmark called for making the simple model used to produce those graphics available with its source code and parameters.
 Ecuador, for the Group of 77 and China , stressed: the importance of advancing, and maintaining a balance among, all elements of the Paris Agreement; the need to move to textual negotiations by COP 23; and NDCs as a key vehicle for delivering enhanced action under the Paris Agreement.
The EU noted the importance of discussing HFCs and bunker fuels, and AUSTRALIA, with MALAWI, proposed establishing a drafting group on bunker fuels.
Hungary, supported by Saudi Arabia, Finland and others, stressed the need to take into account all pros and cons of renewable energy sources.
HUNGARY, the US, AUSTRIA and SWITZERLAND emphasized the role of observer organizations in facilitating transparency and confidence in organizations.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND called for mechanisms for compliance and dispute settlement.
Thailand, supported by Tuvalu, called for a table to clarify parties’ positions in order to facilitate discussions in Barcelona.
CANADA highlighted regional and sectoral differences and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized the need to consider national circumstances.
Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing this under the agenda item on intergovernmental arrangements.
In relation to a question by SOUTH AFRICA on the consistency of the US target for 2020 with science, he noted the recent announcement of a target to reduce emissions by 26-28% by 2025 compared to 2005 levels, which, he explained, will double the pace of the decarbonization of the economy and is consistent with emission reductions of 80% by 2050.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Angola, for the LDCs, Maldives, for AOSIS, and Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, said they would upload their statements to the UNFCCC website.
CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK  said if parties embrace common but differentiated responsibilities, this would equate to the EU contributing about one fourth, and the US about one third, of adaptation funding in developing countries, which she estimated at US$50 billion per year.
TUVALU, supported by BRAZIL, emphasized the need for transparency in discussing REDDplus and raised concerns over initiatives by certain parties to consolidate text.
TUVALU and GUYANA identified the need for parties to take ownership of the text.
Many party groupings supported the Chair’s proposal, while Australia, for the Umbrella Group, objected to the creation of the contact group on institutional arrangements, stating that the first two contact groups would sufficiently deal with this matter.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged progress and conclusion on key issues, including adaptation, finance and capacity building.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said the SAR already shows dangerous climate interference.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, highlighted the agenda item on the fourth review of the financial mechanism and requested an update on operationalization of the Adaptation Fund.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA, MALAYSIA and INDIA supported differentiation in the section, with CHINA calling for a compliance arrangement for developed countries and facilitative implementation for developing countries.
The EU, supported by MALTA, reiterated its proposal for a framework for action on adaptation.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the Protocol as critical to the UNFCCC process and identified ambitious emission reductions by Annex I parties as the only way to reduce the already evident impacts of climate change.
CHILE and COLOMBIA described ongoing efforts toward their initial national communications.
CANADA, supported by BOLIVIA, proposed community participation in impact assessments.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked for clarity on when and how their impending text proposals on institutional arrangements and scaling-up finance would be discussed.
Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America , Argentina and El Salvador, called for Annex I countries e2 80 99 leadership on mitigation and provision of finance and technology transfer.
On flexibility, New Zealand and Canada supported raising the issue of flexibility in the context of each element of the guidelines.
 : Compliance Committee Co-Chair Kunihiko Shimada presented the Committee’s report , outlining the Committee’s consideration of various issues including: compliance issues relating to Bulgaria, the result of which was suspension of Bulgaria from participation in the flexibility mechanisms; matters relating to Croatia, highlighting that Croatia has not submitted a plan to address its non-compliance although the deadline for doing this has passed; and issues regarding what should be done in the event of Annex I parties failing to comply with their reporting requirements, highlighting that Monaco has not submitted its fifth national communication.
During the discussions, the Maldives, for the G-77/China, called for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation, scaling up of funding, and adequate and predictable financial resources.
In the absence of these amendments, BOLIVIA, opposed by the EU and the PHILIPPINES, urged deletion of paragraphs 15-23.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with SWITZERLAND, expressed concern with opening up sectoral issues as separate agenda items.
Chile, for AILAC, preferred existing reporting vehicles that would not burden any country and facilitate North-South and South-South cooperation.
The US and EU underlined that the question is how, not whether, to include it.
Hungary, Poland and Brazil, opposed by Germany and Mali, suggested considering crowdfunding.
Regarding "[issuance and cancellation of assigned amounts  related to Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4]" the G-77/China, supported by the EU and US, suggested referring to "additions" and "subtractions" from AAs in the guidelines under Article 7.
The Chair proposed consultations between the US and Venezuela.
BRAZIL, with the US and NORWAY, highlighted that many of the REDD-plus principles, including financing and MRV, are dealt with in the mitigation text on NAMAs.
Norway, the EU, Switzerland and Japan opposed an ex ante process to commit to quantified support commensurate with the ambition reflected in the adaptation and mitigation goals, with the EU signaling this as “a red line.” Colombia emphasized the need to capture predictability in the new agreement.
Spain, for the EU, suggested MRV of: how much support is provided; the purpose of support; channels through which the support is provided; and types of support such as grants or loans.
The US, EU and CANADA objected, as they had not yet seen the document.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, called for finalization of work on: measuring, reporting and verification , national reporting; and payments for results-based action.
 Wim Monna, the Netherlands, and Julia Martínez, Mexico, chaired the group.
Uganda, for the LDCs, advocated that governments mobilize resources from the private sector and described providing loans for adaptation as “immoral.”
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern about the pace of negotiations and supported further discussions on MRV and ICA.
Switzerland, Norway, the US, the UK, the Marshall Islands, Uzbekistan, and Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, supported including a list, noting that the SBSTA should indicate that the SAR had important messages for policy makers.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the TAPs should start work as soon as possible and supported the US proposal on different composition for the TAPs and that one of the Co-Chairs be from an Annex I Party.
HONDURAS, SAUDI ARABIA and HUNGARY argued against inclusion of nuclear power in the CDM.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that Annex I parties’ greenhouse gas  inventories show an increase in their GHG emissions and urged the SBI to fulfill its mandate to review the implementation of the Convention, including Annex I parties’ emission reduction efforts.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, submitted text to elaborate the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage, proposing, inter alia: further developing the modalities and procedures for the mechanism’s operation; involving existing bodies and expert groups under the Convention, as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the Convention; and considering relevant precedents under international law.
  The Secretariat introduced the item , which relates to a proposal by Kazakhstan to amend the Kyoto Protocol to include Kazakhstan in Annex B. KAZAKHSTAN highlighted national efforts for transition to a low-carbon economy and development of a legal framework for a domestic cap-and-trade mechanism.
With the US, AUSTRALIA said that matching of action and support is best discussed in the context of finance.
Reporting on intersessional meetings, MEXICO outlined preparations for Cancun, including: the Informal Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; a series of activities held in conjunction with the 65th Session of the UN General Assembly in September 2010 in New York, US; and an international technical workshop for States and indigenous peoples in preparation for COP 16, also held in September 2010 in Mexico.
Calling for focus on rules and guidance, including on the NDCs, the global stocktake and transparency, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested conceptual discussions on how to take work forward.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for engagement of indigenous peoples and academic institutions.
CANADA, opposed by the EU, supported the Croatian proposal and requested further information on the assessment of the forest cap.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for adding the 2018 facilitative dialogue to the agenda so discussions may begin and advocated for a robust review of the WIM.
JAPAN, opposed by the UK, said there were "actual" and "potential" methods of estimating emissions and proposed a new paragraph under which the COP would affirm the "actual" method for including HFC, PFC and SF6 emissions in QELROs.
The US also noted that he would make additional proposals if the proposals of the EU and CHINA were accepted.
On institutional arrangements for capacity building, China, for the G-77/CHINA, agreed to present a consolidation proposal for options a and b under paragraph 140.2.
Switzerland, for the EIG, agreed on the need to move toward a negotiation text, but highlighted the importance of roundtables for conceptual discussions and the need for concrete proposals that reflect and operationalize the Convention principles.
On capacity building, Nepal, for LDCs, stressed that institutional capacity building is a priority need and called for the immediate implementation of the work programme under UNFCCC Article 6 .
Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , commended the Co-Chairs for their e2 80 9cbold and effective e2 80 9d work and said AILAC would e2 80 9ccontinue to build bridges.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, said progress on developed country mitigation has not been comparable to progress on developing country mitigation actions.
BRAZIL, supported by ARGENTINA and others, suggested that IMO and ICAO should continue reporting to the SBSTA.
The European Union  noted the table does not include a just transition to low-GHG economies, and, with India, gender equality.
Penny Wong, Minister for Climate and Water of Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an agreement delivering an environmental outcome and with legally-binding commitments for all major economies in order to realize a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for systematic support for NAPs in developing countries.
With Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, he called for focusing on implementation of actions and the means for implementation.
 Regarding costs and benefits of various abatement pathways, the UK, supported by Switzerland, Tuvalu and Norway, underscored losses from the previous version of the draft text.
JAPAN, with the US and SAMOA, questioned the need to specifically provide the COP/MOP with a referral function since referral could be by "a Party or group of Parties" She also questioned the need to involve the Secretariat in the referral process.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA questioned the need for a decision at this point.
Discussing a revised outline on Friday, the US suggested clarifying that international environmental agreements are not part of development policy and, with Mexico, Saudi Arabia and others preferred to avoid naming specific programmes and organizations in the outline.
Austria, Switzerland, the Bahamas, Peru, Saudi Arabia and others preferred that governments continue to be the sole financial contributors to the IPCC.
SENEGAL and CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC called for a Climate Change Day.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, lamented the lack of a clear outcome.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted pre-sessional discussions on the complexity of assessing comparable mitigation efforts.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed dismay with the text, saying that it “is unbalanced,” due to the removal of the G-77/China’s proposals.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, asked the Co-Chairs to explain the added value of their proposed heads of delegation meetings.
South Africa, for BASIC, expressed disappointment with the lack of progress in the consideration of the elements of the 2015 agreement, and, with the LDCs, called for discussions in Lima in more focused groups.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by COSTA RICA, MALAYSIA and THAILAND, expressed concern that the option on land-based accounting was omitted from the text.
While most delegations were generally supportive of AIJ, several, including the G-77/CHINA, COLOMBIA, INDIA, URUGUAY, the PHILIPPINES and EL SALVADOR, expressed the need to better distinguish between AIJ projects and those implemented jointly between Annex I Parties.
  Convened by the EU, Canada, and China from 20-21 June 2018 in Brussels, Belgium, the MoCA brought together ministers and other representatives from 36 governments.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a legally-binding agreement that would sit alongside a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period, stressing that “Cancun must not compromise the future.”
Bhutan expressed concern that the LDC Fund will be inaccessible to most LDCs.
JAMAICA, VENEZUELA and MICRONESIA noted that although CCS has potential, it has not been fully tested or proven.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Norway, the EU, Japan and Switzerland called for time-bound, binding mitigation commitments by all parties.
Saudi Arabia and China responded that the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement mention financial flows to developing countries and emphasized the need to respect this language.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the process ensured party ownership and stressed that the principles of the Convention must be honored to reach an agreement that positively impacts the lives of vulnerable people.
For Canada, Switzerland and Uruguay a decision at INC-11 would be to their advantage.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, emphasized the gap between what is required by science and the 13-19% aggregate reduction reflected by the current pledges.
Switzerland, with the EU, proposed that the UNFCCC Secretariat regularly report on relevant World Trade Organization  activities.
Spain, for the EU, expressed support for treating mitigation and adaptation equally and for fast-start funding focusing on particularly vulnerable countries, and emphasized that the issue of response measures should be dealt with under mitigation.
Countries participating in the MEF are: Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the US.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, outlined the G-77/China’s proposal on constructing reference levels.
Underlining Trinidad and Tobago 92s vulnerability to floods and hurricanes, he stressed that his country and region have finally concluded that actions must be taken to mitigate climate change and to cope with disasters.
CHINA and INDIA stressed the need to avoid protectionist trade measures in the name of climate change action.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted renewable energy and energy efficiency, and, supported by SWITZERLAND, proposed addressing policy options for energy sector fiscal instruments.
  At the contact group, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need to operationalize the Fund as soon as possible and noted three issues to be resolved: cost of GEF services; direct access to funds; and the World Bank’s role as a trustee.
Canada, with New Zealand, Japan and the Russian Federation, suggested that Parties discuss the proposed draft decision further at COP-8.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA suggested it be e2 80 9choused e2 80 9d under the SBI, with PERU adding that a joint SBSTA/SBI agenda item is possible.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN objected to a COP decision, while the EU, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CANADA expressed support for it.
Indonesia and Brazil said ICA should not be burdensome.
He expressed concern that “the benefits of the Kyoto Protocol flexibility mechanisms are threatened here in Doha” and called for ensuring “broad access to these.” Liechtenstein, on behalf of the EIG, emphasized three outstanding issues: length of the second commitment period, level of ambition, and the smooth transition to the second commitment period.
Japan expressed difficulties with the concept of a compliance action plan, while Canada said it had concerns with text providing that "further consequences" may be decided by the enforcement branch.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, recalled Convention Article 4.7, which makes developing countries’ commitments conditional to developed country assistance.
With Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and Barbados, for AOSIS, he requested that the Secretariat compile information on developed country pledges.
In the subsequent discussion, COSTA RICA highlighted difficulties for technology projects in small countries and CHINA highlighted barriers in developed countries.
The EU, with NORWAY, and opposed by CANADA, requested that SBSTA seek submissions by Parties on specific national HWP data by 1 August 2005.
Representatives from the UN, Denmark, Egypt, Maldives, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, Spain and the United Arab Emirates also participated in the session.
The Republic of Korea, for EIG, suggested exploring the possibility of an early pilot phase to build capacity and confidence.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested further work on periodic assessments of institutional arrangements through COP decisions.
The G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and others supported determining the level of ambition based on current rules and later adjusting the level upwards according to possible changes.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, and RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, preferred deferring discussions until clarity had been achieved on the other building blocks.
INDIA said adaptation and mitigation should be addressed separately and, with NIGERIA, stressed the Synthesis Report 92s importance, particularly for developing countries.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to switch to full negotiating mode and to have a workable negotiating text in Bangkok.
The EU encouraged Kazakhstan to ratify the Protocol first and defer consideration of its request to COP/MOP 3.
The EU acknowledged Croatia’s right to appeal and identified the need to be clear concerning procedural issues so that the same approach can be used in future appeals.
 Several delegates expressed satisfaction at the Board 92s work and many, including CHINA, the EU, IRAN, JAPAN, and the G-77/CHINA, suggested further improving the Board 92s management and CDM procedures.
He noted, with Bangladesh, for the LDCs, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BRAZIL, that action should be based on principles including, inter alia, common but differentiated responsibilities and “country-drivenness.”
 On this issue, Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed doubt as to whether a redesign is needed and stressed that discussions on this issue should not prejudge AWG-KP outcomes.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted the progress made at the Barcelona meeting, saying that text had been streamlined and clarified.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the meeting should delineate the elements of the 2015 agreement and identify what can be elaborated in COP decisions.
Kenya, for the African Group stressed, inter alia, the political will of developing countries to participate effectively in the transparency framework.
In an opening statement, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over slow progress and said conclusions on several agenda items should be adopted in Poznań.
Bangladesh described the US proposal as a “better packaging” of the proposal by Mexico for a green fund.
For similar reasons, the US, New Zealand and Norway also prefer Geneva.
The EU opposed Saudi Arabia 92s request to include discussions on the implementation of Protocol Article 2.3  on the agenda.
Saudi Arabia, with Algeria, China and India, opposed by Canada, called for a e2 80 9cnationally appropriate mitigation action -like e2 80 9d registry.
The US and the EU stressed the need to incorporate the additional methodological issues raised by the Kyoto Protocol into the existing guidelines to enhance understanding of the three new gases under the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed deleting the agenda item on matters relating to Protocol Article 2.3 .
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, stated that, for legally-binding provisions, the committee should focus on compliance and otherwise on facilitating actions.
  Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: transparency and inclusiveness; limited parallel meetings; and the APA providing guidance prior to establishing contact groups and spin-offs.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed that the public sector in developed countries should be the main source of financing.
Several countries, including Japan and the Russian Federation, noted that their pledges are contingent on a comprehensive global legal framework.
ZIMBABWE proposed specifying the voluntary nature of AIJ, and CHINA proposed making specific reference to reports from Parties “participating in the pilot phase of AIJ.” The conclusions, as amended, were adopted.
Switzerland, Colombia, India and others emphasized the need for transparency.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, highlighted that this skill-set was not present in the CGE, and supported deleting the paragraph.
PANAMA, on behalf of Central American countries and the Dominican Republic, stressed environmental integrity.
During informal consultations, many spoke in favor of this proposal stating it would improve the effectiveness of the Convention, including Costa Rica, Colombia, Guyana, Suriname and the EU.
Germany and Venezuela supported broad and inclusive language.
In opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at slow progress in adopting conclusions on the scale of Annex I emission reduction targets.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, stressed that MRV in developing countries takes place in accordance with national standards.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the importance of: increased ambition on mid-term reductions; inclusion of emissions from the international aviation and maritime transport sectors; fast-track and long-term financing that includes the private sector and carbon market; and action on a performance-based mechanism for REDD.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed that this session should focus on progressing arrangements under cooperative approaches and further discussing response measures.
Singapore, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the elements for the MPGs should be outlined along the lines of the “shalls” and “shoulds” of Article 13 .
CHINA expressed concern with the lack of constructive discussions in the finance group and EGYPT highlighted the need for text on long-term finance.
Sudan, supported by Switzerland, cautioned against an imbalanced and non-representative list of policy-relevant questions.
AUSTRALIA, the US, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the urgency of addressing adjustment methodologies, in particular in relation to the base-year inventory.
WG I Co-Chair Val c3 a9rie Masson-Delmotte, supported by WG III Vice-Chair Diana c3 9crge-Vorsatz, China, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Germany, the UK, and the Bahamas, stressed the importance of having chapter scientists from developing countries, noting their status as early career researchers and the important capacity building that can be enabled by facilitating their participation in the IPCC.
The Netherlands and Mexico advocated overlap between the Working Group and Synthesis Report writing processes to allow re-examination by the Working Groups of any inconsistencies identified by the Synthesis Report process.
The G-77/CHINA and EU objected, noting the importance of capacity-building experts agreeing on the text first.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to enhance pre-2020 action and to respect the “delicate balance of all issues” achieved in Paris.
China and Sweden said more discussion on this issue could be useful.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the Protocol is central to the future of the climate change regime.
  During informal consultations, parties continued discussing harvested wood products as outlined in proposals by New Zealand and Tuvalu.
94 The Gambia, supported by the UK, Belgium, US and others, called for quantifications.
Guatemala, for AILAC, lamented the gap between INDCs’ aggregate effect and the levels of emission reductions needed to stay within the 1.5 c2 b0/2 c2 b0C goal.
The US, the Russian Federation, and Finland proposed possibly moving the section on natural disturbances to an appendix, saying that it only applies to a few countries.
On energy efficient buildings, moderator James Drinkwater, World Green Building Council, reported on presentations on: a legal framework for implementing a green buildings policy in Tshwane, South Africa; legislation on green roofs in Recife, Brazil; the Energy Freedom Project in Byron Bay, Australia; VELUX e2 80 99s perspective on ways to advance energy efficiency policies and actions; and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development e2 80 99s experience with solutions in buildings, energy and resource efficiency.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said COP 21 has produced a global agreement that creates a framework for all nations to play a part in securing a prosperous future, noting the Agreement confirms that developed countries will continue to lead in providing support for climate action, while recognizing the important role that others can play.
Colombia, for AILAC, stated that while progress had been slow, the meeting had built trust among parties and established a good mode of work.
AUSTRALIA and ICELAND questioned the implications of mid-term reviews on legal commitments and the impact on emissions trading systems.
The Philippines and the Gambia stressed focusing attention on new and effective adaptation technologies.
The Republic of Korea and Sweden, for the EU, preferred retaining the text.
Maldives, for AOSIS, raised concerns that there was insufficient time to reflect on proposals.
On a point of order, several parties, including SOUTH AFRICA, EGYPT, NIGERIA, CUBA and CHINA, called for showing the text on the screen, and reflecting in it specific proposals by parties in order to, inter alia, enable understanding of parties e2 80 99 proposals and allow developing countries to participate as equals.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested sub-issues under the use of market mechanisms could be e2 80 9cshuffled e2 80 9d at a later stage.
Bangladesh highlighted the high cost of operationalizing CDM projects, including the registration fee and validation by a Designated Operational Entity and called for exemptions for the LDCs.
Highlighting the vulnerability of LDCs, Tanzania, for the LDCs, stressed the need for entry into force of the Protocol and constructive work on matters relating to technology transfer, capacity building and LDCs.
New Zealand, Belgium, Canada and others expressed concern that text that had been agreed in the contact group after many hours of discussion was being reopened, and called for agreement of the text as a package.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, accepted the text as a basis for discussion.
Supported by TUVALU, SAINT LUCIA and others, she suggested keeping this agenda item open so that it could be revisited based on the AWG-KP Chair’s report.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and INDONESIA supported holding an in-session workshop on the shared vision.
NICARAGUA, with BOLIVIA, ECUADOR and VENEZUELA, said the Fund should have full juridical personality and legal capacity.
Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, asked that their group be consulted.
South Africa, supported by China, India and Brazil, suggested inviting party submissions on technical aspects of possible improvements to the flexibility mechanisms.
On the draft conclusions on cooperation with relevant international organizations, , the EU and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA inquired about the joint project on capacity building between the UN agencies and the Secretariat, noting that Parties were not aware of the details.
NEW ZEALAND, with JAPAN and CANADA, said that caps would create a disincentive for LULUCF mitigation efforts.
 The Philippines, supported by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, also requested that the meeting adjourn early in deference to the religious duty of Muslims during Ramadan.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA and the GAMBIA, said the absence of information on the effect of policies and measures should not be an obstacle to meeting the needs of the truly vulnerable.
New Zealand and others, opposed by Algeria and others, proposed that non-Annex I countries could use their national communications to identify consequences of response measures.
The US, with JAPAN, favored recognizing that contributions are nationally determined and reflect national circumstances.
Venezuela and others said the issue is technical and should not, therefore, be sent to the COP, while Ethiopia reminded parties that the COP in Durban mandated the SBSTA to adopt a decision on agriculture at COP 18 and suggested that the COP decide whether to continue consideration of this issue at the next SBSTA session.
Tuvalu, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the Protocol’s importance now and in the future and elaborated on its two proposals to amend the Protocol.
The UK, Belgium, Kenya, Morocco and Switzerland warned against trying to formulate detailed rules before the next Bureau takes office and suggested using softer language.
Canada, supported by Norway, the UK, and US, stressed referring to the country-driven approach, national circumstances and sustainable development.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, expressed his satisfaction that parties had finalized a number of recommendations and laid down foundations for COP 13 and COP/MOP 3.
 Noting that an increase of 2 b0C in global temperature would have devastating impacts on SIDS, Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need for a global comprehensive response within the UNFCCC framework and building on the Kyoto Protocol, leading to stabilization well below 445 ppm.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, underscored the need for further information on the assumptions underpinning countries’ pledges.
Also Bolivia, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Argentina, Venezuela and Pakistan urged openness, transparency and inclusiveness in the consultations, lamenting the lack of transparency so far.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for bold action and a strong legally-binding outcome that provides clarity on rules for the flexibility mechanisms and for land use, land-use change and forestry .
The EU, with JAPAN, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the US, recommended that the options on the compliance committee 92s composition be kept open.
On  , the US, supported by the EU and Australia, noted that the text does not contain actions that all parties can take to address adaptation.
TUVALU, with the PHILIPPINES, noted sympathy for Bolivia’s position on REDD, but said there are ways to accommodate different positions.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, and IETA, welcomed the proposal.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR stressed references to Mother Earth.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN stated that China’s allegation of their non-compliance with the Kyoto targets is inaccurate.
AUSTRALIA and Spain, for the EU, emphasized that the document should acknowledge that implementation is already occurring.
On reporting under Articles 10 and 11, the G-77/China, opposed by the US and EU, said Annex I Parties should also be requested to report on the implementation of their commitments related to the transfer of technologies and the provision of "new and additional" financial resources.
They highlighted “extremely positive” signals coming from key developing countries such as Brazil, China and India, and their ambitious national plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as proof.
The PHILIPPINES, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and others lamented lack of clarity on the means of implementation.
On the nature and timing of the proposed informal exchange of information, the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN, preferred holding it after COP-5, but before the twelfth sessions of the subsidiary bodies .
Spain, for the EU, observed that it looked forward to the first review, emphasizing that it was important for COP/MOP 6 to consider temporary provisions regarding trust funds and that any projects underway should not be affected by the review.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the importance of MRV.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for more information on bunker fuel emissions growth, while the EU highlighted that sufficient information exists to justify the consideration of bunker fuels.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted the need to move to negotiating mode in 2009 and underlined Switzerland’s proposal on financing.
SUDAN and TURKMENISTAN encouraged international cooperation to revive traditional means of transportation and enhanced energy efficiency.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for enhanced understanding of the nature and magnitude of consequences and for evaluating the effectiveness of existing tools for addressing negative impacts of response measures.
The use of existing mechanisms was opposed by the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Uganda, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP.
JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, preferred stating language that the guidelines "shall be used" instead of "should be used" to ensure the comparability of national communications.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA and the EU, suggested “closing” discussion of decision 1/CP.10 since those matters, such as adaptation, are being discussed in other bodies.SAUDI ARABIA, with the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, maintained that there has not been sufficient progress on the operational requirements for response measures and suggested an item-by-item review of the relevant aspects of the decisions.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, some Annex I Parties, including Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the Russian Federation, did not join the consensus, disputing, among other things, eligibility requirements and credit banking under the mechanisms.
By 8 December, many of the outstanding issues had been resolved, with the exception of reference to LDCs and SIDS in the objective of the programme, and references to economic diversification of vulnerable economic sectors, as supported by Saudi Arabia and others.
He called for massively scaled-up, accessible and additional funding for LDCs, and, on adaptation, said the LDCs should receive 70% of the proposed 1.5% of Annex I parties’ GDP for adaptation.
The US, supported by Canada and Australia, and opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that this item address the submission of second and subsequent national communications.
Canada, supported by Austria, noted a need for well-defined objectives and outcomes for the meeting, and the UK called for a focused report attending to the transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance of: national adaptation plans; loss and damage; and further work on Convention Article 6.
The EU said that they appreciated the efforts of non-Annex I experts and the G-77/China proposal on guidelines, but could not accept these substantial modifications.
Ecuador, for ALBA, hoped that the third review of the Adaptation Fund would facilitate increased provision of resources.
JAPAN, BENIN and SOUTH AFRICA supported the idea of standardized baselines, with SOUTH AFRICA adding that these should be used in conjunction with existing additionality tools.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for: clarity and further guidance on the mode of work, including promoting consistency across facilitated groups; identification of key themes and concepts; and a party-driven process.
SPAIN emphasized the need for temporal and spatial disaggregation of scenarios, and CHILE emphasized the relevance of regional scenarios for decision makers.
Belize, for SICA, called for Annex I parties to raise their level of ambition and highlighted the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
Nepal, Timor-Leste, Burkina Faso and Sierra Leone stressed the need to extend the mandate of the LEG.
Mexico, supported by Colombia and others, introduced a proposal to allow a “last resort” vote in cases when every effort to reach consensus has failed on issues that carry broad support.
Australia, with France, Switzerland and Denmark, noted that there are two distinct issues that have to be addressed: continuity of experience, and ensuring growth, dynamism and the ability to respond to change.
INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA, VENEZUELA, TAJIKISTAN, ZIMBABWE and others highlighted the need for a transparent and inclusive negotiating process.
The African Group, India, Norway and others supported establishment of regional adaptation centers.
THAILAND and DOMINICA called for a REDD+ governance body under the COP.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG: attached high priority to the multilateral assessment working group; urged the SED to start discussing detailed review methodologies; and called for discussions on the frequency of COP sessions, including the possibility of biennial COPs after 2015.
With the US, Australia said that matching action to support is best discussed in the context of finance.
The US clarified that it had an objection, not a reservation, and the EU reiterated its concern.
The G-77/China and the Russian Federation highlighted the need for additional negotiating time between Bonn and Doha, while acknowledging financial constraints.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored, inter alia, action on the adaptation framework for implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , technology and capacity building programmes, and finance that is reliable and additional to ODA.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need for accelerating work under the NWP.
Peru, for AILAC, suggested that experiences from REDD+ can be useful in establishing baselines and noted that REDD+ guidelines will not be superseded by modalities, procedures and guidelines of the transparency framework.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for strengthening the mandate of the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change  to address poverty alleviation, food security and reduce vulnerabilities.
The EU, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and IRAN noted the MCP\'s purpose is advisory only.
JAPAN and SAMOA referred to their respective proposals for a compliance system and said that such an appeal would be available.
The US and CANADA indicated that the issues raised by Articles 4.8 and 4.9 and the subsequent decisions should be separate.
Tuvalu, Bolivia and Switzerland stressed incorporation of indigenous peoples in the deliberations.
LDCs, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested first working on the various options within paragraphs before attempting to merge paragraphs.
  On this issue , JAPAN opposed Saudi Arabia’s proposed amendment entailing legally-binding consequences for non-compliance.
NEW ZEALAND, with SWITZERLAND, called for concluding consideration of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper, noting it covers most of the elements of the CRP.
Australia supported a new legally-binding instrument, with specific obligations for a broad set of parties, while Palau called for a new protocol.
  In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiating meetings: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and INDIA, called for reference to UNFCCC Article 4.3, 4.4, and 4.7 relating to financial commitments from developed countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BRAZIL, MEXICO, GHANA and CHINA, called on parties to reaffirm their commitment to a second commitment period and finish the AWG-KP’s work in a timely manner.
The Panel adopted Working Group I e2 80 99s  contribution on the physical science basis of climate change in Stockholm, Sweden, in September 2013, and Working Group II e2 80 99s  contribution on climate change impacts, adaptation and vulnerability in March 2014 in Yokohama, Japan.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and the African Group said the focus should be interlinkages among all PAWP items.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said their priorities in Doha include the adoption of a legally-binding, ratifiable second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and strong financial commitments.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group  called for effective work programmes for 2009, and underscored the importance of the Article 9 review for Protocol parties.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, noted that the current text might introduce conditionalities and standards, while on framing of the work he stressed the importance of emphasizing minimizing the negative impacts of potential consequences for developing countries.
 SUDAN, on behalf of the Africa Group, supported the proposal and said the SBSTA-21 in-session workshop results should be included.
Guatemala, for AILAC, urged a common understanding of interlinkages guided by questions on: issues being addressed; necessity of input from other agenda items; where final decisions are made; and space for further inputs.
On ambition, Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested a process to increase ambition, technical workshops, and further consideration at COP 18.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, reiterated that discussions on response measures should be distinct from discussions on adaptation and called for the proposed workshop to have a narrow focus.
The EU and AOSIS said the proposed definitions on the "project boundary" should be amended to differentiate between boundaries relevant to accounting methods and those exclusively geographical in nature.
OPEC countries and China said that the protocol negotiations were premature since neither the best available scientific information nor the review of Annex I Parties\' communications provided a sufficient basis for negotiations.
On a paragraph urging all parties to the Kyoto Protocol to ratify and implement the Doha Amendment, Belarus suggested “calling upon” parties to consider the “possibility” of ratifying the amendment and to “clarify all existing ambiguities that might hamper its implementation.” The EU said issues around Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8  should first be resolved.
Italy, speaking for the EU, urged the US to take actions comparable to those that would have been expected from them under the Protocol.
 SWITZERLAND elaborated on the Environmental Integrity Group 92s proposal on the assessment of the CDM.
Tonga, for AOSIS, highlighted three elements: impacts of severe weather events; risk management; and rehabilitation associated with slow onset events.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested information on adaptation and loss and damage would be useful, and cautioned against “negotiating a prescriptive approach to equity” as an input.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, ARGENTINA and COLOMBIA, preferred the option of not taking a decision on the issue.
Norway announced that they will sponsor both the Special Report on extreme events’ second lead author meetings in March 2010 in Hanoi, Vietnam, and government/expert review meeting in January 2011 in Bangkok, Thailand.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, presented a proposal on a possible protocol structure based on three principles: consistency with the BM, consistency with the Convention and the need for a dynamic instrument.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA and others, urged SBSTA to invite Parties to submit views on these issues.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, tabled an alternate proposal which links principles and modalities.
 The fifth Assembly of the International Renewable Energy Agency  took place from 17-18 January 2015 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, with more than 1,000 participants in attendance.
The UK, with Slovenia, proposed adding an introductory paragraph to the SYR SPM stressing overall progress in scientific understanding of climate change since the Third Assessment Report .
Bolivia answered that, if Austria e2 80 99s proposal were agreed, a reference to the need for e2 80 9cstronger international cooperation e2 80 9d would also be necessary.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA expressed concern with the lack of support from developed countries for the implementation of the capacity building framework.
Several Annex I countries and the European Community pledged a total of US$8,188,050 for funding the CDM, with the largest donations coming from Canada , Germany , Japan , Italy , the UK  and Spain .
UGANDA, opposed by the US, said decision 10/CP.9  mandates SBSTA to do more than merely facilitate information exchange among Parties.
Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a workshop on common accounting rules to be held in Bangkok and indicated that it should be a full negotiating session.
Chair Chruszczow proposed that the SBI launch its work, based on the supplementary provisional agenda  without adopting it and invite the SBI vice-chair to conduct informal consultations with interested parties on the proposal by the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Belarus.
The G-77/China called for adaptation communications to inform the global stocktake while New Zealand reminded that adaptation communications are voluntary, and, therefore, could at best “contribute” to a meaningful global stocktake.
With the PHILIPPINES and Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, he noted the need to work toward bringing REDD+ initiatives under the UNFCCC.
He explained that, since its establishment in 2001, the Foundation has carried out projects in Brazil, China and India aimed at catalyzing human, institutional and financial resources to support the development of locally-defined and managed enterprises engaging in sustainable energy activities.
China, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China, emphasized conducting work in an open, transparent, inclusive and party-driven manner, and said that the Paris agreement should be in line with CBDR and respective capabilities.
Regarding draft conclusions on assessing the status of implementation of Article 4.9 , Tanzania, for the LDCs, objected to references stating that SBI expressed its satisfaction at the progress achieved so far in implementing the LDC work programme.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted outstanding issues, including MRV for REDD+, national forest monitoring systems, and agriculture.
On Saturday, 6 June, the facilitated group focused on three clustering proposals from: the G-77/China; the EU; and Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
Germany, with Saint Lucia, said that the statement on a decrease in surface ocean pH for all RCP scenarios was misleading, and noted that under RCP2.6 ocean acidification slowly begins to decline from the mid-21st century.
South Africa acknowledged Japan’s new target and invited other Annex I countries to come up with emission reductions consistent with the scale required by science, while encouraging them not to condition their pledges on action by others.
VENEZUELA, supported by BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, CUBA, NICARAGUA, PERU, GHANA and others, said the CDM’s future was contingent on a second commitment period, and urged ambitious QELROs from Annex I parties.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and others highlighted that a quota system would be problematic for the market, with the EU noting it would undermine cost-effectiveness.
Regarding a paragraph on  , participants agreed to proposals from Ecuador to add landslides and from the Bahamas to add drought and air pollution to a list of risks in urban areas.
The Republic of Korea, on behalf of the G-77 and China, noted that after consultations with other groups only three sets of brackets remained in the document.
 AUSTRALIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and others, said the shared vision should be a statement of aspiration rather than legally binding.
Cuba, Costa Rica, Peru and others emphasized that the Synthesis Report must use inputs from the best experts with balanced geographical representation, and said cross-cutting themes should be integrated into the substance of the report.
Australia, with Canada, the EU and AOSIS, supported discussions on the TAR as a separate agenda item.
On the draft COP decision on principles, nature and scope of the mechanisms, Canada and Japan, opposed by the EU, G-77/China and the Alliance of Small Island States , proposed deleting text emphasizing that environmental integrity is to be achieved through sound modalities, rules and guidelines for the mechanisms, strict principles and rules governing LULUCF, and a strong compliance regime.
India and Saudi Arabia expressed concern over numbers projecting increases and decreases in water availability and runoff, and questioned their scientific basis.
On sinks in the CDM, GUATEMALA, opposed by TUVALU and GREECE, supported their inclusion.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by UKRAINE and opposed by the US, proposed the inclusion of additional text in which SBSTA draws "attention to the need for additional research on concentration of greenhouse gases which might have an impact on the climate change system."
The two key bodies under the Bali Roadmap are the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP, which held four negotiation sessions in 2008 in: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznán, Poland.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, stressed the need to focus on the operative sections of the text.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that it looked forward to considering issues identified by the Expert Group on Technology Transfer  under the AWG-LCA and underscored action-based implementation of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change .
On institutional arrangements, Swaziland, for the African Group, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Algeria and Argentina preferred anchoring institutional arrangements in the TEC and CTCN.
The NETHERLANDS, with CANADA, favored applying the same approach to all Parties, including an incentive scheme.
On  , China, Algeria, Bolivia, Venezuela and AOSIS emphasized the need for ambitious commitments from Annex I parties.
 On the scope of MRV, ARGENTINA, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against bias towards mitigation.
INDIA, CHINA and BRAZIL recommended inclusion of a clear definition on assigned amounts, and, opposed by the US, suggested deleting the existing reference to assigned amount units.
The EU, US and CANADA highlighted progress made, including the GEF 92s third replenishment, the establishment of the LDC Fund, and development of guidelines for NAPAs.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by SAMOA, bracketed text permitting one Party to raise questions with respect to another.
Switzerland and Norway said ministerial engagement should not be a matter of routine, but add value to the process.
The EU, supported by NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, said any financial architecture should be based on principles of effectiveness, efficiency and equity.
Belgium, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, WGIII Vice-Chair Pichs-Madruga and others highlighted the importance of integration of scientists from the other WGs in this work and, with Saudi Arabia and Egypt, stressed the need to avoid a mitigation-centric approach.
 CHINA, supported by INDIA, SRI LANKA, VENEZUELA, MOROCCO, CHILE, SAMOA, GAMBIA, GHANA and JAPAN, requested a compilation synthesis of all proposals to be distributed in January.
Spain, for the EU, welcomed progress on the NWP, the EGTT’s work programme and standardized baselines under the CDM.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by OMAN and the EU, and opposed by CANADA, requested the exclusion of a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts in relation to cleaner energy exports.
SAINT LUCIA, ALGERIA, TUVALU, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and BOLIVIA underscored that access to the flexibility mechanisms, including Joint Implementation  and the Clean Development Mechanism , would be difficult to agree to in the absence of a second commitment period.
INDIA, speaking for the G-77/ CHINA, called for progress on other elements of the BAPA, highlighted the need for conformity with the FCCC 92s emphasis on equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, and emphasized issues relating to the nature and scope of the mechanisms and supplementarity.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed concern that many of the proposals appeared to be donor/recipient arrangements.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ALGERIA, CHINA and INDIA, opposed by CANADA, called for a e2 80 9cNAMA-like e2 80 9d registry.
The EU, supported by BRAZIL, stressed that both positive and negative consequences should be considered.
Canada, Switzerland and others called for broad participation, while Zimbabwe and others emphasized that Article 3.9 refers specifically to Annex I countries.
Yemen, for G-77/China, urged more ambition from Annex I parties to close the gap between existing pledges and the level of commitment that is required by the science.
The EU, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, NORWAY and CHILE agreed, but said the approach is not yet mature and the definition in the Co-Chairs 92 text will suffice for the time being.
The G-77/CHINA urged discussion of the contact group Co-Chairs\' draft, with CHINA opposing the use of other documents.
AOSIS, with China, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and AILAC, called for annual high-level engagement.
Venezuela, supported by Ecuador and Saudi Arabia, proposed removing the concept of “human security” in the bullet on adaptation pathways, noting it was not appropriate in the context of resilience.
The LMDCs also proposed merging sub-options d and e. AUSTRALIA, opposed by CHINA and INDIA, suggested merging sub-options h and l.
Preferring option 2, Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, said the Co-Chairs’ informal document could further progress towards the development of draft outcomes of text.
 The EIG and Turkey supported using the existing guidelines, with the EIG suggesting that the need might arise for adding further guidelines and new topics or for adjusting the frequency of reporting.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged the Board to facilitate greater participation in the CDM by underrepresented countries, including by operationalizing the loan scheme.
However, Grenada, speaking for AOSIS, observed that the discussions on legal form had not reached any consensus and therefore should continue in Tianjin, so that an agreement could be adopted in Cancún.
BOLIVIA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA, ARGENTINA, VENEZUELA and PAKISTAN urged openness, transparency and inclusiveness in the consultations, lamenting the lack of transparency so far.
CHINA and INDIA called for inclusion of conservation.
The UK and Luxembourg supported changes to the questionnaire, with the UK suggesting that a new questionnaire supersede the one already sent out.
BOLIVIA said strong IPRs increase costs of R&amp;D, and INDIA, with the PHILIPPINES, suggested compulsory licensing.
During discussions, the US queried the AOSIS figures set out in an analysis of aggregate Annex I parties’ emission reductions for 2020.
Spain noted the need to maintain coherence in the outlines of the three WG reports, and Germany requested clarification on what constitutes an official cross-cutting theme versus other issues that appear within the scope of work of all WGs.
Republic of Korea, supported by Belgium and Japan, proposed to include direct measurement of GHG emissions from sources, noting that they help to improve accuracy of estimates.
He requested assistance from Canada and Indonesia in consolidating text on means of implementation and financing for full implementation, and from the EU and Gabon on MRV of actions and of support.
The EU and TUVALU highlighted the incompleteness of existing data, and delegates discussed specific data submissions.
On a paragraph noting that arrangements in the decision relating to INDCs are without prejudice to the legal nature of the INDCs or the content of the 2015 agreement, Sudan, for the African Group, stressed that both the legal form and the content of the Paris agreement should not be prejudged.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged an ambitious and comprehensive agreement at COP 16.
On warming trends, Belgium, supported by Germany and others, stressed the need for consistency with the TAR and proposed using 1860 or the 1900s as reference years in a statement on total temperature increase.
CANADA called attention to meeting stakeholder needs, and CHINA suggested that governments and research institutions play an active role.
 MALAYSIA supported by CHINA recommended deferring AIJ workshops until after COP-3 to avoid basing decisions on inaccurate information and requested information on budgetary implications of holding an AIJ forum.
Nauru, for AOSIS, discussed elements of equity, science, sustainable development and survival.
On Monday, 8 June, the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and ETHIOPIA, called on the SBI to identify the needs of developing countries, utilizing the SBSTA and the IPCC.
IRELAND supported the EU call for clear qualitative and quantitative ceilings on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
Poland, for the EUROPEAN UNION , reiterated their willingness to consider a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Bangladesh supported a multilateral CDM programme for LDCs.
Indonesia expressed concern about concentrating only on large-scale energy systems and, with Spain, Argentina and others, called for providing a regional perspective.
South Africa, for BASIC , called for more time for deliberations on finance, adaptation, and transparency, and stressed the need for moving towards a comprehensive party-driven negotiating text, and for increasing pre-2020 ambition.
In closing statements, the EU welcomed advances on technology transfer, research and systematic observation, and Annex I UNFCCC reporting guidelines, as well as the outcomes on standardized baselines and CCS under the CDM, while several parties highlighted water issues, and Ecuador proposed a SBSTA programme of work on water.
AOSIS WORKSHOP ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM OF THE KYOTO PROTOCOL: The Alliance of Small Island States  Workshop on the Clean Development Mechanism  of the Protocol took place in Majuro, Republic of the Marshall Islands from 14 - 16 July 1999.
These assignments are: Minister Onkokame Mokaila of Botswana for shared vision; Minister Tim Groser of New Zealand for developed and developing country mitigation; Minister María Fernanda Espinosa of Ecuador for the Adaptation Committee; Special Envoy Claudia Salerno of Venezuela for response measures; Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet of France on sectoral approaches; and Minister Chris Huhne of the UK for Review.
While agreeing that it is not necessary to launch negotiations on the Dialogue’s design, the EU and Australia stressed that parties must leave COP 23 with clarity on its conduct.
 Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a technical process to deploy specific mitigation solutions.
AUSTRALIA noted that they had increased their pledge and wondered if other parties had processes for reviewing their pledges because some “had been on the table a long time.” IRAN highlighted the gap between pledges and aggregate emission reductions needed from Annex I parties to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations.
China emphasized the April and June sessions as an integral whole, and Saudi Arabia identified the need to discuss sectors other than the specific energy sectors addressed under Workstream 2.
The G-77/China also called for bottom-up approaches and, opposed by the US, Canada, the EU and others, for the establishment of an expert group to address the issue.
Emphasizing that the public sector should be the main source of finance, Bangladesh said that global markets had failed to deliver and “no place for LDCs and SIDS” had been created.
Bolivia echoed Argentina’s statement for the G-77/China, saying there are insufficiencies and ambiguity in the results from Cancun and that the underlying issues, particularly political will, must be resolved before South Africa.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported the invitation for views but said the SBI should not prejudge the outcome of the COP ef bf bds deliberations.
AOSIS highlighted the need for the mechanisms to be based on sound environmental principles and, with VENEZUELA, called for adequate time for consideration.
The US, with HUNGARY, suggested that capacity building focus on implementation of the FCCC and Protocol, rather than sustainable development.
CANADA and the EU suggested a high-level “political moment” in 2023.
In the decision, the COP: accepts the offer by Poland to host COP 19 and CMP 9 in Warsaw from 11-22 November 2013; notes that COP 20 and CMP 10 will be in Latin America and the Caribbean, and invites parties to consult on the hosting of these sessions; and takes note of the offer of France to host COP 21 and CMP 11 in 2015.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for a Convention adaptation fund, linking adaptation funding to emissions, an international insurance mechanism for SIDS, and adaptation coordination mechanisms.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for progress from developed countries on converting pledges to economy-wide emission reduction targets, and with the Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern with the lack of clear projections for mid-term financing.
While supporting the G-77/China proposal, TANZANIA and EGYPT expressed unease with the process, worrying that the different pace and methodologies of the facilitated groups could lead to inconsistencies.
NIGERIA, supporting both the G-77 and China and Saudi Arabia, said that he would hold the Chair to his promise of reviewing sources of information.
Peru, for AILAC, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that the co-chairs’ reflection note seek to eliminate duplications and improve the contents of the informal notes, which INDIA opposed.
Responding to questions from the US and the EU, the Secretariat said budgeting beyond 1997 will be addressed at the next session of the SBI.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed adding language on “25-40% greenhouse gas emissions reductions below 1990 levels” for Annex I parties.
CHINA, BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and NICARAGUA expressed support for adopting the agenda as proposed.
The Russian Federation and Kyrgyzstan supported the proposal.
Sweden, for the EU, said that a Copenhagen deal must deliver concrete results and include all the essential components of the Kyoto Protocol.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that commitments should not shift responsibility from developed to developing countries, nor encourage private over public support.
Pakistan, supported by Brazil, suggested addressing this together with SRs.
URUGUAY disagreed with China, and suggested a reference to the detection of climate change and trends therein due to non-anthropogenic causes as well as a reference to oceanographic information.
The US and NORWAY expressed interest in the proposal, with caveats.
On the Executive Board , NORWAY, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, highlighted a role for the EB in determining new baseline and monitoring methodologies.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA called for focusing on the NAMA registry.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AILAC and the LDCs, called for restructuring the section before deciding what to transfer to decision text.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stated parties should leave Bonn with a comprehensive plan of work and a timetable.
Commenting on the provisional agenda, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, warned against transferring unresolved issues from the AWG-LCA to the SBSTA, saying the AWG-LCA should maintain an overview of specific issues that were mandated for consideration by the SBSTA.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said reaching an agreed outcome on all pillars of the BAP was a precondition for terminating the AWG-LCA and noted pending issues related to, inter alia, long-term finance and shared vision.
NORWAY suggested a synthesis paper based on the submissions, which IRAN opposed.
On the sub-item dealing with the consideration of the fifth compilation and synthesis of initial national communications, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, objected to a document tabled by the Secretariat on steps taken by non-Annex I Parties to reduce emissions.
Saudi Arabia and Algeria stressed all developing countries must adapt to spillover effects and, opposed by the African Group, AOSIS, the US and the EU, supported inclusion of response measures under adaptation.
Although JAPAN and the NETHERLANDS expressed reservations about this, AUSTRALIA 92s suggestion was agreed to.
Algeria, for the African Group, noted the imbalance in progress on mitigation by developed countries under sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP and mitigation by developing countries under sub-paragraph 1, calling for legally-binding commitments from developed countries that are not parties to the Protocol.
On first order problems, GERMANY and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, suggested including reference to this issue in the draft decision on Article 7 rather than in the guidelines under this article.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, was in favor of holding informal consultations during AGBM 2.
Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed concern about “insufficient and disappointing” progress in some areas.
Venezuela said the CDM has a “shameful” record on hydrochlorofluorocarbons , while Bolivia highlighted their negative experiences with CDM projects.
Discussions on both Brazil e2 80 99s and Saudi Arabia e2 80 99s concerns continued in a small group.
The COP then took note of a list of proposed workshops relating to Article 4.8 and 4.9, Article 3.14 and LDCs and adopted a document containing the Input to the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries .
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, with the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, noted increased hurricane intensity.
VENEZUELA objected to amending the Convention, and EGYPT opposed differentiation of mitigation actions.
The Philippines reminded parties to learn from existing efforts in REDD implementation and Tanzania highlighted the role of REDD as incentives to local communities to continue mitigation activities.
Senegal highlighted recent natural disasters that occurred in some countries, stressing that climate change affects everyone equally, and Kenya emphasized that the survival of humans must take precedence over economic interests.
The EU highlighted the need to focus on the consistency of rules for new mechanisms, while New Zealand called on parties to resolve tensions between a “deep and fluid” carbon market and the use of markets to rectify other problems.
INDIA, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred using the Chair 92s text.
Chair Zammit Cutajar noted concerns expressed by Switzerland regarding future transparency of the process and by Saudi Arabia regarding inclusion of observer parties, and said these would be addressed at AWG 2.
France, Germany and others stressed the importance of emissions scenarios and underscored the catalytic role of the IPCC in facilitating this work in a timely manner for AR5, in particular the development of low emission scenarios consistent with targets undertaken by some countries under the UNFCCC.
The contact group met on Thursday, 6 June, to consider a Co-Chairs 92 proposed draft working paper and annex , which incorporated EU and US technical proposals on the guidelines.
Outlining their proposal, Tanzania, for the G-77/China, highlighted, inter alia: an expert group on capacity building; a plan of action for implementation of the capacity-building framework; and performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the framework.
With SOUTH AFRICA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, he stressed the need to include the objective of "making the climate whole."
Saying that the high-level roundtable did not increase the ambition of Annex I parties, China, opposed by the EU, Australia and Norway, proposed a contact group.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, supported by South Africa, China and Saudi Arabia, expressed concern with the compatibility of proposals on common mitigation frameworks with the Convention and the BAP.
Mali, Peru, the Russian Federation and Argentina welcomed specific regional-level outreach activities.
The US added that developing countries should be eligible for support in implementing their contributions, and LDCs and others should have flexibility to submit at their discretion without expectation.
FRANCE, on behalf of the EU, stressed that domestic actions should be the main means for fulfilling developed country commitments.
Regarding second national communications, she said these have been submitted by Mexico and the Republic of Korea.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that there had been useful progress on most of the Durban-mandated tasks.
Several parties, including Norway and Singapore, supported inviting ICAO and the IMO to Bangkok to answer parties’ questions; this was opposed by Saudi Arabia.
Co-Chair Rawleston Moore requested views on elements omitted from the draft conclusions, and CHINA suggested specific issues related to technology transfer, which the G-77/CHINA suggested could be addressed by the Expert Group on Technology Transfer .
Saint Lucia and Bolivia underscored the need to increase the level of ambition.
EGYPT noted that substance should be discussed before interlinkages and, with VENEZUELA, stressed that there should be “one outcome in one process” and not “different outcomes in different processes."
TUVALU, for AOSIS, raised concern over adopting the GPG without sufficient time for its examination, and over the practicality of considering the GPG for the UNFCCC and Protocol separately.
New Zealand, with the EU, US and Australia, said submission in 2011 is not acceptable.
Supporting China"s positions on voluntary participation and against shifting of commitments, Australia stressed the need to keep the institutional arrangements as simple as possible.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, highlighted the right to survival.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and opposed by AUSTRIA, PERU, SWITZERLAND and the US, suggested that methodologies be referred to as revised methodologies.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, said 132.8 is different from the options contained in 130 and the two should not be merged.
Some developing countries urged a more action-oriented approach, with SUDAN suggesting a “mechanism for actions,” while the US and AUSTRALIA stressed the need to focus on the most critical points.
The EU was represented by Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands.
Regarding the decision that future work should enable an assessment of demonstrable progress of Annex I Parties in achieving their Protocol commitments, the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and the EU underlined the importance of this issue.
The EU suggested reference to Decision 5/CMP.2 and the Environmental Integrity Group to Decision 5/CP.7 and “areas identified as priorities” by other relevant decisions.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for: transforming current pledges on the table into QELROS to enable progress in discussions; enhancing ambition by closing loopholes in the Kyoto Protocol; provisional application of “any agreement” on a second commitment period to resolve the issue of the gap; and discussion of consequential amendments.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, proposed that revision to the guidelines be taken by consensus.
France, opposed by the US, proposed restructuring the entire section and adding detail from the Executive Summary, including on hurricanes.
Nauru, for AOSIS, identified the need for more focused discussion, with developed countries taking the lead and upscaling finance.
The African Group, G-77/China, AOSIS and the LDCs urged a second commitment period.
China, supported by Saudi Arabia, sought listing the Annex I Parties 92 commitments to which the compliance system would apply, and said compliance with other commitments would be dealt with under the Multilateral Consultative Process.
SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL suggested the topics of workshops would emerge from the submissions.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77, Peru, China and Benin commented that progress had been made during the GEF restructuring, but the GEF needs further modification in its representation as well as additional funds before it can be designated as the permanent financial mechanism.
JAPAN highlighted the need for clarity on how to define parties’ absolute emission reduction targets, and with AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, called for coherence with the AWG-LCA.
GERMANY and the US recommended that “environmental” costs and benefits be considered and EGYPT said their role in enhancing carbon sinks should also be noted.
SWITZERLAND and CHILE also favored a protocol.
Supported by AOSIS and others, Brazil stressed, however, that the two AWGs should always meet in parallel.
The EU said that Germany’s proposal that “a certain portion yet to be determined may be met through JI, whereby a significant part of the commitments must be met through measures within each Party’s own territory” should be retained for now.
NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND opposed legally-binding numerical financial commitments.
On Saturday evening, following further consultations, the Group agreed to Saudi Arabia’s proposal to add reference to “adaptation with mitigation co-benefits.” The Group also agreed to the UK’s suggestion to insert “infrastructure and lock-in as appropriate” and to refer to barriers when addressing sector specific policies, financing and enabling conditions, as suggested by Switzerland.
Egypt, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Madagascar and others called for something stronger than “encourages” assistance, and participants agreed to “requests.” There was also some discussion on whether sources of financing should be clearer, but participants agreed not to be prescriptive.
Highlighting the vulnerability of her region, Colombia, for AILAC, stressed that effective implementation of the Paris Agreement requires consideration of countries’ special circumstances.
Jamaica, on behalf of the G-77/China, expressed concern at the GEF Resource Allocation Framework.
The US and other Umbrella Group countries stressed the need for a new and different mandate.
In response to concerns expressed by MALAYSIA and IRAN, the Chair suggested that MCP meetings occur in conjunction with COP and subsidiary body meetings.
Responding to a request by the Russian Federation to add a reference to Convention Article 17 , the US noted this only applies to a protocol, while the Durban Platform allows for several possibilities regarding the instrument under preparation.
The EU, Norway, Bangladesh, France and others expressed gratitude to the Russian Federation for ratifying the Protocol, and urged the Russian Federation to accept the draft decision on Article 3.9.
Resuming discussions on the Co-Chairs ef bf bd text, ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, indicated that emphasis on the use of national communications to report on actions and assess vulnerability should not constrain actions in the most vulnerable and least developed countries that may not already have disseminated or compiled this information due to, inter alia, lack of capacity and funding.
CHINA and BRAZIL suggested only considering afforestation and reforestation under the CDM.
Belgium, for the EU, said the meeting had not lived up to his expectations.
COLOMBIA, for Costa Rica, Chile, Panama and Peru, highlighted the need to ensure: continuity to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; comparable commitments by Annex I countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol; predictability on the continuation of finance for the 2013-2020 period; and continued progress in ADP discussions.
The US, opposed by New Zealand, Germany, France and others, proposed deleting reference to 93millions more people 94 being affected annually.
Mexico and Chile called for including short-lived climate pollutants.
HUNGARY supported the US’s long-term goal for atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs: called for a standing item for loss and damage; lamented insufficiency of resources in the LDC Fund; and called for ensuring the sustainability of the Adaptation Fund’s operations.
Antigua and Barbuda, speaking for the Group of 77 and China , lamented that the negotiations have not reflected a sense of urgency about climate change and called for progress on the AWG-KP and developed country commitments.
CANADA opposed Tuvalu’s proposal to classify “removing financial additionality” as a second commitment period issue.
The US and INDIA supported holding a conversation on text on intellectual property rights and a long-term technology goal.
BRAZIL stressed that sectoral approaches should only apply to Annex I countries, and CHINA specified they can be effective for energy and transport emissions in industrialized countries.
CHINA supported mid-term mitigation targets by developed countries as the basis for determining long-term mitigation goals, and stressed the right to develop as a “fundamental and inalienable human right.” COSTA RICA discussed nationally appropriate mitigation actions and its intention to achieve carbon neutrality by 2021.
NEW ZEALAND questioned whether caps are necessary given the transparent accounting in the G-77/China’s proposal.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed support to enhance NAPs and technology transfer implementation.
THAILAND and TAJIKISTAN emphasized the need to build research capacity.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the US presentation raised issues outside the BM process and did not account for important aspects.
CANADA, COLOMBIA and the US supported Chair Thorgeirsson 92s suggestion that such reporting activities be undertaken at national level instead.
Angola, for the LDCs, stated that the 2 c2 b0C limit is inadequate and should be strengthened to 1.5 c2 b0C.
JAPAN suggested alternate wording related to the “promotion of co-benefits.” UKRAINE, supported by JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed the retention of this option for Track 2 of JI.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that a central component of COP 23 must be a strong and effective enhanced transparency framework.
The meeting was also attended by the UN, Colombia, Denmark, Grenada and Yemen.
Saudi Arabia, China and the US said the proposal was premature given limited human and financial resources.
UGANDA called for a formal and binding instrument on technology, ICELAND emphasized climate friendly technologies as a way to meet emission reductions without halting economic growth, and MALDIVES called for modern cleaner technologies.
 TANZANIA, LIBERIA, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK  and others underscored rural livelihoods and local communities.
CANADA and the US called for its retention.
SAUDI ARABIA said the forum is necessary because Annex I parties have not reported on potential consequences in their national communications, while NEW ZEALAND underscored that Annex I parties were not required to report on potential consequences until their fifth national communications, which have just been completed and reviewed.
The panel consisted of delegates representing Bolivia, Canada, Japan, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the UK.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for coordination between the AWGs and stressed that the agreement should capture the full range of mitigation efforts, with common architecture and obligations grounding the common responsibility of all countries to mitigate climate change.
The US expressed concern over the interdependence of chapters and called for some consolidation and Japan agreed that Chapters 2-5 were interrelated.
ITALY, for the EU, urged the US to take actions comparable to those that would have been expected from them under the Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and the EU called for avoiding duplication of reference to the need to deepen understanding.
Saudi Arabia said that the G-77/China had not had enough time to consider the text fully, and could not accept it as a basis for discussion.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA questioned the role of the Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Finance and highlighted the importance of the finance board.
India endorsed the G-77 and China\'s statement and expressed concern about certain parts of the AOSIS proposal.
China stressed that temperature was not mentioned in the outline for WGIII, nor was it included in the TAR, but Belgium underscored that temperature served as the common thread through the IPCC working groups.
JAPAN and the US doubted the value of using one set of indicators to evaluate national policies.
Opposed by the EU and CANADA, he said that the G-77/China 92s text should serve as the basis for negotiation.
Uganda, for the LDCs, lamented their proposals had not been clearly reflected in the revised negotiating text.
Iceland highlighted sectoral benchmarking and the Russian Federation noted voluntary commitments.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group , highlighted the NWP, REDD+, and reporting on climate finance, adding that he looked forward to the completion of the 2013-2015 review.
For instance, China repeatedly moved to avoid language on emissions in recent years, and Brazil and Peru tried to ensure that uncertainties in emissions surrounding land use change were clearly conveyed.
SWEDEN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BELGIUM, and opposed by OMAN and NIGERIA, called for a dialogue on developing country commitments.
EIG, the EU, and the Umbrella Group suggested more complex tasks be given more time.
Chile, for AILAC, asserted that all parties should take a commitment proportional to their capacity and support should be provided to those lacking capacity.
JAPAN noted a COP-7 decision  requesting the Secretariat to organize a workshop before COP/ MOP-2 relating to reporting on minimizing impacts of response measures and, supported by the EU and CANADA, said this addressed Saudi Arabia 92s concerns.
  Regarding the status of UNFCCC parties at Protocol informal consultations, delegates were unable to agree on a precise legal position on their status, with views expressed by the EU on one side and AUSTRALIA and the US on the other.
At the initiative of the Netherlands, Development Alternatives is organizing a Conference on AIJ from the perspective of developing countries from 8-10 January 1997 in New Delhi, India.
Thailand, for the Group of 77 and China , underscored that action on adaptation and loss and damage cannot be deferred to after 2020.
The G-77/CHINA and BRAZIL stated that issues related to differentiated treatment of parties under the CDM fall outside the AWG-KP’s mandate, and suggested noting that they would require amending Protocol Article 12 .
The EU and COSTA RICA favored approved third-party reviews and requested preparation of a workplan for AIJ reporting tasks.
On next steps in the climate change process, SAMOA, for AOSIS, said that once work on the BAPA is completed, Parties should review commitments under this regime, and suggested that they be stronger and more extensive.
Samoa, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, called for specific, action-oriented language.
Costa Rica, for the G-77/China, said efforts to address climate change should not be compromised by the current financial crisis.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, underscored that an agreement under the AWG-LCA will not be possible unless agreement is reached on a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period.
Nicaragua, Solomon Islands, Ghana and Fiji called for having loss and damage as an element separate from adaptation.
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , stressed the need for full substantive discussion on the item and the EUROPEAN UNION  called for compilation and synthesis of information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
Australia said the Trinidad and Tobago proposal was unacceptable because it assumed the aim of negotiations was a protocol that had not been discussed.
On the chapeau, the US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed deleting reference to specific provisions of the UNFCCC.
Regarding a sentence stating that e2 80 9c  leading to CO2eq concentrations in 2100 of about 450 parts per million  or lower are likely to maintain warming below 2 c2 b0C over the century relative to preindustrial levels , e2 80 9d China, with Bolivia and Saudi Arabia, requested that information on achieving the 2 c2 b0C goal through scenarios reaching different CO2eq concentrations, with different confidence levels, be included as well.
TURKEY, NORWAY, the EU, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Angola, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , MALAYSIA and KUWAIT supported reference to Convention Article 2 .
TANZANIA said support for adaptation measures in LDCs is a moral requirement.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged the adoption of ambitious reduction targets to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
BANGLADESH, supporting Germany, stated that the AGBM must start negotiations on policies and measures for Annex I parties, and added that analysis and assessment could be done simultaneously.
The EU and AUSTRALIA expressed concern that this rewards countries that overshoot first commitment period targets.
 CANADA supported the US proposal for a special session on quantitative reductions, and differentiated or regional targets among Annex I Parties.
The EU, opposed by the LDCs, suggested addressing the mitigation cycle in the mitigation section, and considering the adaptation and finance cycles in those sections.
The G-77/CHINA supported a draft COP decision on monitoring capacity building, while the EU, JAPAN and US said a decision was unnecessary and proposed adopting only SBI conclusions.
 BRAZIL supported common policies in sectors of an international nature and, supported by MEXICO and IRAN, cautioned against policies that would impose barriers to international trade and negatively affect non-Annex I countries.
Trinidad and Tobago pointed to discussion of limits to adaptation and associated losses in the underlying report.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others appealed for clarity on how to advance APA’s work beyond May 2017.
The Rules of Procedure were adopted by IPCC-25 in Port Louis, Mauritius, in April 2006, and revised at IPCC-35 in Geneva, Switzerland, in June 2012, to reflect that of the three IPCC Vice-Chairs, at least one must be from a developed country and one must be from a developing country, and three different regions must be represented.
Guatemala stressed the need to “stop talking and start taking decisions.” Colombia questioned how not having any agreement could be beneficial for the environment and, supported by Gabon, noted that consensus did not mean that one country could block decisions.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed disappointment with the text, noting that it is “unbalanced,” failing to reflect the main elements of the Bali Action Plan.
A number of speakers, including the EU, THE GAMBIA, JAPAN, SWEDEN, SYRIA, CROATIA, NEW ZEALAND, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EGYPT, NEPAL, SPAIN, GHANA and the G-77/CHINA, stressed that: active leadership to prevent global warming must come from developed country Parties; domestic action must provide the main means for meeting commitments to combat climate change; and flexibility mechanisms were supplemental and their use must be subject to strict rules of accountability and compliance.
  The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, requested, and parties agreed, referring only to additional guidance to the GEF in the title of the decision text.
Norway, with Switzerland, supported TEMs’ focus on mitigation, including fossil fuel subsidy reform, and, with Colombia, called for recognizing the work of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, The Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, called on developed country parties to commit to QELROs to reduce emissions by at least 40-50% below 1990 levels by 2020 and at least 25-40% by 2017.
BELARUS and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed the need to incorporate text reflecting the special national circumstances of Annex I countries with economies in transition, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION adding that the issue must be addressed before forwarding the texts to the COP.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP and the LMDCs, supported starting work on the draft decision.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN opposed the deletion, arguing, inter alia, that broader issues of transparency and good governance were involved.
The EU, G-77/China, Africa Group, Norway, Japan, South Africa, New Zealand, Kenya, Tanzania and others supported adopting the SBSTA agenda.
Japan and Canada underscored the value they contribute to discussions given their experience implementing the Kyoto Protocol.
Supported by MAURITIUS, CHINA, IRAN, MALAYSIA, MOROCCO and ARGENTINA, the G- 77/CHINA called for deletion of references to modalities for crediting.
Sri Lanka and Palau, speaking also for Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, proposed an ecosystem approach to adaptation.
 COP 23 President Bainimarama noted two proposals for additions to the provisional agenda : from Iran, for the Like-minded Group of Developing Countries  on the acceleration of implementation of pre-2020 commitments and actions, and increasing pre-2020 ambition; and from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, supported by Mozambique, on a gateway to encourage, monitor, report, verify and account for ambition of non-party organizations.
Belgium, supported by Switzerland, France, and Germany, said that it should be elected members of the Panel who speak on the content of IPCC findings, and that this should be somehow clarified when addressing the role of the IPCC Secretary.
SWITZERLAND, supported by HUNGARY, urged SBSTA to further elaborate on the inclusion of bunker fuel emissions in overall GHG inventories.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait proposed deferring the issue to SBSTA-16.
He urged delegates to bring together the AOSIS protocol and the EU framework to develop a protocol with binding emission reduction commitments and time-tables.
New Zealand, with the Russian Federation and Japan, opposed excluding certain parties from the discussions.
Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, underlined the importance of comparability to assess developed countries’ efforts relative to each other and aggregate, and cited a lack of harmonized rules and differences in adoption of single and multi-year carbon budgets as impeding comparability.
The G-77/CHINA, COLOMBIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, MICRONESIA, UZBEKISTAN, INDIA and others said Annex I countries should communicate GHG emission limitations and their commitments concerning financial resources and technology transfer.
Noting that she was from a Russian NGO, she said the Russian Federation will benefit from participation in the Protocol, and highlighted a statement by President Putin stating that he would be cooperating with the EU with a view to early ratification and entry into force.
The EU said the annex was not a negotiated text and supported the US proposal to leave the debate to the high-level segment, as it related to other issues under negotiation.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the outcome of the AWG-LCA should be inclusive, fair and effective, covering all elements of the Bali Action Plan and recognizing the urgent needs of Africa, especially on adaptation.
Norway, supported by Australia, opposed “differentiated engagement,” saying defining criteria would be difficult.
SAMOA, on behalf of the AOSIS, stressed that the BM was adopted at the highest level.
Delegates could not agree to an EU proposal, supported by CANADA and NORWAY, that the SBI invite the GEF to submit its views on complementarity among the funds under the UNFCCC.
 CANADA and JAPAN said capacity building must be e2 80 9ccountry-driven, e2 80 9d and not e2 80 9cdemand-driven.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed disappointment and frustration with lack of progress under the AWG-LCA, pointing to the lack of decisions that would allow work to be advanced, and called for draft decision text between now and Doha, as well as greater clarity on what is going to happen with unresolved and pending issues.
SWITZERLAND and BELGIUM recommended exploring synergies with activities taken under UNFCCC Article 6 .
However, AOSIS expressed concerns about CCS as a CDM activity, with JAMAICA noting many uncertainties with respect to this technology and that its limited geographical application would exclude many countries.
Australia, supported by Canada, requested the parties to implement the Copenhagen Accord pursuant to Convention Article 7.2 .
Other delegates, including Brazil and the US, preferred the formulation proposed by the authors, which was then approved.
JAPAN, BULGARIA, ETHIOPIA, KENYA, the EU and BRAZIL urged countries to ratify the Protocol.
CHINA underlined that there was no unified G-77/CHINA position on this proposal.
BOLIVIA and CANADA emphasized inclusion of LULUCF in the CDM.
On the report of the CGE, CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, noted that there might be overlap between the report and the COP-6 Part II funding package, suggesting they be harmonized.
NORWAY expressed concern about the G-77/China proposal to list existing funds under the Convention in the agreement.
On cycles, the UMBRELLA GROUP and PALAU emphasized five-year cycles for reporting and review.
The EU suggested basing discussion on the Co-Chairs 92 proposal, while also considering Australia 92s proposal.
On the first item, Ukraine agreed to remove the brackets, while Kazakhstan and Belarus requested more time for consultation.
NORWAY supported a 9% budget increase, while JAPAN reaffirmed its position to support a zero growth budget and to move the interim allocation from the core budget to the supplemental Trust Fund.
The US, supported by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed that the Secretariat produce an information paper on links between the TAR and other agenda items.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the importance of ambitious commitments by developed countries.
BARBADOS highlighted support from SIDS, Africa, LDCs and countries in Latin America and the Caribbean for the technical paper.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed, inter alia: the importance of adaptation for all parties; and aggressive mitigation to avoid increasing the adaptation burden.
 Japan and Canada also opposed requesting submissions from Annex I parties by 30 June 2008 on indicative ranges for domestic emission reductions, with Canada indicating that this was premature.
On timing of submissions of second and, where appropriate, third national communications, the US and SAINT LUCIA questioned the meaning of "availability of financial resources."
Belgium, for the EU, stated its preference for a single, legally-binding instrument that includes essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol, while indicating that he was open to other options as long as they are binding, comprehensive and in line with the aim of limiting temperature increases to 2°C.
Brazil, supported by Chile, for AILAC, suggested that developed countries “shall,” in their INDCs, communicate their financial support targets, and policies and measures for technology development and transfer and capacity building, taking into account national circumstances.
In the ensuing discussion, SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA cautioned that energy intensive industry may not necessarily relocate to oil exporting countries.
Sudan, for the African Group, opposed by Norway and the US, said a quantitative goal for adaptation MOI could be aggregated from NAPs.
MEXICO, the EU and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC welcomed the initiative.
CANADA, the US and JAPAN, emphasized the importance of information exchange.
During closing statements, Burkina Faso, for the LDCs, and Grenada, on behalf of AOSIS, urged developed country parties to come to Poznan ready to make quantitative reduction commitments.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged the development of a workplan at this session, and others asked if these submissions would constitute a workplan.
The US, Norway and Australia suggested that text on strengthening the Technology Mechanism/institutional arrangements should be addressed in decision text.
The EU, the Environmental Integrity Group, Norway and Chile agreed, but said the approach is not yet mature.
Chile, for AILAC, preferred existing reporting vehicles that would not burden any countries and facilitate North-South and South-South cooperation.
The EU, supported by the US, suggested holding workshops to share information on sector or sub-sector specific activities.
Angola, for the LDCs, requested that the tool be made available in early July, stressing the need for sufficient preparation time for the next ADP meeting.
Co-Chair Plume introduced Part IV of the guidelines under Article 8, Review of National Systems, based on submissions from the EU and Australia.
SENEGAL, supported by BRAZIL, INDIA and the GAMBIA, highlighted the proven additionality of small-scale renewable technology and supported the development of positive lists.
Many parties welcomed the trust built during the first week, but raised concern over the negotiations e2 80 99 slow pace, with the EU and US highlighting that the Secretariat could have undertaken most of the editorial work.
AUSTRALIA, supported by AOSIS, suggested combining the clusters on MRV.
On the third point, the US, with Germany, Canada and Switzerland, opposed by Egypt, objected to a full translation of the literature assisted by a UN-based language service, questioning the necessity and the cost of such translations.
 MALAYSIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said the TAR 92s conclusions should be used cautiously.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a “climate effective” outcome and said current discussions should not prejudice any future discussions as this was only the beginning of a long conversation.
Supported by Norway and Australia, the EU proposed to move text on strengthening the Technology Mechanism to decision text, noting that these issues are currently discussed under the COP.
NORWAY and CANADA sought to establish a process to enable COP-5 to consider sinks.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that emphasis should be on country-driven strategies and the needs and priorities of developing countries.
Earl Nesbitt, Trinidad and Tobago 92s Minister of Public Utilities and the Environment, opened the meeting on Tuesday, 14 June, and chaired the morning session.
On a paragraph on preparing a negotiating text on the basis of Annex I of the draft decision text, Cuba, supported by Malaysia, for the LMDCs, proposed “acknowledging” the work of the ADP and “deciding that the ADP continue its work in 2015 to finish the elaboration of the draft negotiating text.”
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , noted the importance of the transparency framework, including for support.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed deep concern that the current pace of work was too slow, and requested the Presiding Officers to give “decisive and strong” guidance.
 On Section K, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, cautioned that it, along with sections on compliance and procedural and institutional provisions, prejudge the legal outcome, falling outside the ADP mandate.
France and Norway suggested, and the panel agreed, to ask the Secretariat to invite IPCC members to make submissions expressing their views on the issue.
 Co-Chair Audun Rosland reported progress on the common reporting format and announced that the EU, with the help of Canada, would present reporting tables on sectoral background data for LULUCF based on IPCC Good Practice Guidance .
INDIA, Saudi Arabia, Argentina and China supported using a submission made by India as a basis for discussion.
On appeal, the EU, SAMOA and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA doubted the necessity of an appeal, as it would delay the process and merely afford Parties the opportunity to have their case heard twice.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, indicated that the workshop must be based on language in Decision 1/CP.17 and not on the provisional agenda, stressing the need for a broader discussion on the ambition issue.
Norway and Brazil called for moving away from project-based approaches to finance, with Norway clarifying their proposal builds on their REDD+ experience, with a step-wise approach to building readiness and capacity.
  Edgar Lungu, President of Zambia, said LDCs regret that parties have thus far been unable to agree on a quantified goal for adaptation finance.
El Salvador and CARICOM, opposed by Japan, suggested the Secretariat draft a report assessing the adequacy and transparency of INDCs.
Regarding a proposal by the Russian Federation to amend Convention Article 4 , paragraph 2, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION explained the need for periodic review of the list of countries in Annexes I and II.
Australia, supported by the EU, noted that the programme itself and its detailed activities could be adopted at a later stage.
IRAN, with CHINA, BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and the PHILIPPINES expressed concern over a steep increase in the proposed budget’s expenditure levels.
Following high-level consultations on 22 May, Japan and the EU publicly agreed to pool efforts to convince the US to sign the Protocol and encourage developing countries to reduce emissions.
JAPAN and SLOVENIA called for the early signing and ratification of the Protocol.
Argentina, also for Brazil and Uruguay, highlighted ensuring food security as a priority and urged remaining united “to overcome the greatest challenge of our time.”
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA and JAPAN, urged limiting the scope of the decision to Annex I Parties.
JAPAN proposed deleting the paragraph, opposed by the AFRICAN GROUP and MEXICO, who underscored lack of agreement on the scope of INDCs.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the AWG-LCA must set commitments for developed countries that are not Protocol parties that are comparable to those taken by other developed countries under the Protocol in the second commitment period.
CHINA, supported by EGYPT, stated CBDR is a basic principle of international climate change negotiations and should apply to international aviation and shipping.
This was supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, as well as BARBADOS, TUVALU, COSTA RICA, BELIZE, BAHAMAS, SENEGAL, KENYA, SOLOMON ISLANDS, COOK ISLANDS, PALAU and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
The US and AUSTRALIA proposed deleting text requesting the Secretariat to compile information on P&amp;Ms implemented and planned by Annex I Parties, noting the significant resource implications for the Secretariat.
 In his opening statement, UNFCCC Executive Secretary Michael Zammit Cutajar said seven countries had become Parties to the Convention since 3 November 1995: Bhutan, Djibouti, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Honduras, Mozambique, and Nicaragua.
A number of countries, including the EU, the US and CANADA, stressed the importance of the CTI.
She said the G-77/China was willing to apply everything the EU suggested on the initial work programme, but adaptation technologies should also be addressed.
SAUDI ARABIA and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC said technological change requires political will to remove the barriers that prevent use and diffusion of new technologies.
The G-77/China opposed an EU proposal that funding shall 93support technical assistance.
Supporting China, INDIA stressed the need for fairness and transparency in the EB’s work.
The US, supported by the EU, proposed changing the language to "facilitate the implementation of the reporting commitments of non-Annex I countries."
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, said the objective of the SCCF is to assist developing countries to integrate climate change factors into national sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies, and their implementation.
On Scope of Application, Canada, supported by the US, suggested specifying that the system would apply to all Protocol commitments/ obligations "as provided in this decision," since the accompanying decision would specify variations in the treatment of Protocol provisions.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US, preferred to drop the list of information requests and to reference an earlier paragraph in the Co-Chairs\' text, on identification of effects and impacts.
Regarding the modalities for work, the EU, Switzerland, Brazil, AOSIS, Norway, Japan, New Zealand and Mexico supported convening in a single contact group.
COSTA RICA noted that the CDM has not been effective for them, and the EU said that it needs to be enhanced and made more efficient.
Zimbabwe, on behalf of the G-77/China, called for two separate draft decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and another on Protocol Article 3.14.
Co-Chair Carruthers, with the US and China, said that the proposed text reflects a balance between giving flexibility to the new Bureau and the need to send a message to the scientific community.
SINGAPORE, supported by PANAMA, welcomed progress made by the IMO and ICAO in addressing climate change in their respective sectors.
Egypt, on behalf of African Group, said the historic Paris Agreement had “far reaching consequences” for sustainable development and asked the COP 21 Presidency to convene consultations on Africa’s special circumstances at SB 44.
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, urged explicit reference to the group 92s submissions in the revised text as a separate section, to ensure that it provides for the needs of the LDCs.
On commitments, South Africa and India emphasized developed countries’ obligation to provide capacity-building support to developing countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the role of major economies and identified the need for a global agreement that is: informed by science; achievable; comprehensive; and able to reflect the full spectrum of mitigation and adaptation options.
SOUTH AFRICA and SAUDI ARABIA called for clear rules for information gathering.
Following a request by Belgium and Norway, a sentence was added reflecting that “technical measures and practices enabling deep emissions reductions include various energy efficiency options,” to replace a deleted sentence that had included reference to electrification.
The EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested developing a practical, longer-term work programme.
NICARAGUA supported NORWAY’s proposal and uniform reporting requirements.
China, with the US, expressed preference for a single worldwide accreditation body.
The EU stated that consideration of this issue by the SBSTA is premature, while Brazil stressed problems caused by the use of GWPs, saying this has resulted in misguided mitigation efforts.
On  , the US, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and other developed countries stressed the need to consider the report by the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Funding , expected in the autumn.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted: the need to promote national actions and co-benefits, and define a spectrum of commitments.
Switzerland, of behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group, supported the following consequences: a compliance action plan, restrictions on the use of mechanisms, and a compliance fund.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, asked whether this matter could be considered in more detail in the afternoon session.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, inter alia, called for an action-oriented NWP and identified the need to strengthen linkages between the NWP and SBI.
TANZANIA identified the need for African DOEs and CAMBODIA suggested simplifying requirements for LDCs.
She said this initiative focuses on developing a market in cooperation with Papua New Guinea and Indonesia and aims, inter alia, to: increase international forest carbon monitoring and accounting capacity; undertake trials to demonstrate robust and verifiable action on REDD; and support international efforts to develop and evaluate market-based approaches to REDD.
Jasmine Gopaul, Trinidad and Tobago, presented on her country’s Vision 2020 initiative.
Emphasizing that e2 80 9ctransparency is not a substitute for legal force e2 80 9d and that a detailed MRV system is being implemented already, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BRAZIL, questioned the need for new rules and called for enhanced methodologies for MRV of support, with BRAZIL calling for using INDCs as a means to MRV support by including MOI.
JAPAN called for further information sharing and, with the US and CANADA, discussing technologies.
ECUADOR, BOLIVIA, the PHILIPPINES, INDIA, MEXICO and many others highlighted the need for a safeguard on avoiding forest conversion, with BRAZIL proposing to “ensure that the actions are consistent with the conservation of native forests.” PERU and BRAZIL underscored that this does not prohibit sustainable management of forests.
China suggested that the Secretariat develop an inventory of technology transferable at no cost, and Algeria requested that the Secretariat develop practical means for implementing technology transfer for COP-1.
SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA for the AFRICA GROUP, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA, and NIGERIA opposed the use of the text, and proposed using the last version of the draft conclusions or conclude that there was no agreement.
SAUDI ARABIA and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, opposed by MEXICO, AUSTRALIA and COLOMBIA, proposed that examination of options for new channels for observer organizations to provide inputs into the COP and COP/MOP be deferred to SBI 36 instead of SBI 35.
Canada and Spain underscored the importance of linking the disaster management and climate science communities.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the US, the PHILIPPINES and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, requested a manual on the Registry for distribution to other NAMA stakeholders in their home countries.
 In afternoon informal consultations, delegates considered a proposal by Papua New Guinea and Mexico to amend the Convention establishing voting procedures as a last resort to take decisions when consensus is not possible.
Calling for open, transparent and inclusive negotiations, NIGERIA noted that lack of progress under the AWG-LCA stems from “deep distrust and lack of faith in the negotiation process.” BANGLADESH noted the need to agree on a quick start fund and said a legally-binding instrument must be the goal.
AOSIS said they were prepared to move forward and, with South Africa, hoped that the consolidated paragraphs could become the basis of a negotiating document.
Underlining work achieved in Lima as essential for the adoption of the 2015 agreement in Paris, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, stated the agreement must treat the elements of mitigation, adaptation, MOI, and transparency of action and support, in a balanced manner and on an equal footing.
The US said 93different sets of people 94 would exercise these functions, and the EU suggested one body with two distinctive branches.
The US, with CANADA and the EU, said the proposal addressed issues currently under consideration in other negotiating groups, such as discussions on Stage III adaptation, and cautioned against moving beyond other related negotiations.
However, Japan, Canada, Australia and others stated the wording “in particular” means that other issues can be considered.
The US presented a proposal by Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the US on clustering around: guiding concepts; contributions/commitments/actions; institutions; and transparency and reporting processes.
Bolivia, Venezuela and South Africa called for referring to ecosystem “benefits” rather than “services.”
The EU and US noted potential resource implications.
Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the PHILIPPINES highlighted the importance of gender-responsive adaptation measures.
Egypt, for the LMDCs, and INDONESIA emphasized that a capacity-building mechanism should be based on experience sharing, lessons learned and best practices.
The Russian Federation called for more information on bunker fuel emissions growth, while the EU highlighted that sufficient information exists to justify the consideration of bunker fuels.
NORWAY supported the US call for greater consistency in reviews.
Co-Chair Parry, opposed by the UK, Germany and Japan, proposed deleting the statement since it appears elsewhere.
 On continuing the analysis, New Zealand, supported by Japan, suggested seeking expert input on developing common criteria for assessing countries’ mitigation potentials.
On the terms of reference of the review, Canada, the US and Japan, opposed by Ghana, suggested using the EGTT’s performance indicators.
AUSTRALIA suggested considering institutional arrangements and MRV as crosscutting issues, while BARBADOS expressed concern with the latter suggestion.
India, for BASIC stressed that work under the ADP must be informed by the IPCC, the 2013-15 Review and the subsidiary bodies, and urged meaningful operationalization of the GCF, Technology Mechanism and Adaptation Committee.
The EU and MEXICO said gender equality and human rights should be added.
After a presentation from a representative of RAMSAR, the EU suggested that SBSTA consider a draft decision on cooperation with other conventions and, with SWITZERLAND, TUVALU, and NORWAY, proposed inviting the Secretariat to explore methodological issues relating to emissions from international transport, and report results to SB-17.
The G-77/ CHINA, opposed by the US, urged that the adaptation fund draw from all three mechanisms.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, supported by India, emphasized that a second commitment period is necessary for a successful outcome in Durban and added that the fact that some Annex I parties are not confirming a second commitment period means that technical issues need to follow political ones.
Panelists presented on: engaging with the financial sector in the context of policy development; the UK e2 80 99s small-scale FiT scheme; South Africa e2 80 99s Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme; and Chile e2 80 99s experience in engaging commercial banks in the sector.
SWITZERLAND and the EU said the reports of ERTs should also include questions identified and how they had been handled.
South Africa, the UK, the US and others suggested that the discussion on a SR was premature, given that the issue of a separate SR had not even been considered by the Task Group on Future IPCC Activities, and that such a decision needed input from the AR5 scoping meeting, and delegates agreed.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group  did not join the consensus.
The UK, France, Germany, New Zealand and others proposed keeping the explicit comparison, while China and Saudi Arabia proposed deleting it.
Peru, with Saudi Arabia, Norway and several others, proposed considering integration as a cross-cutting issue, while Portugal suggested increased reference to synergies.
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, Japan and Norway, proposed removing the agenda item.
Japan and New Zealand opposed an amendment, emphasizing their preference for a facilitative approach to compliance.
Bangladesh, Sierra Leone, Timor-Leste, the Maldives, Tanzania and others stressed capacity building.
 Numerous speakers welcomed the Russian Federation 92s ratification of the Protocol and expressed hope that the US would also ratify the Protocol.
MOROCCO, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, appealed for a focus on adaptation, and emphasized the need to operationalize funds created under the Protocol and UNFCCC.
NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, conveyed the Group 92s condolences.
KAZAKHSTAN and SYRIA thanked the host country for its hospitality.
Austria, opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed discussing the text in a small group.
SWITZERLAND suggested NDCs reflect parties’ highest level of ambition “in light of recommendations by science.” The US proposed including decarbonization of the global economy over the course of this century.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, welcomed the adoption of a decision on the CGE.
Kenya suggested more definitive language on the purpose of the fund and Australia, supported by Canada and New Zealand, proposed that it be used to provide postgraduate and postdoctoral scholarships for young climate change scientists, particularly those from least developed countries.
Singapore said that the notion of a spectrum of commitments is not consistent with the Convention’s principles and, supported by Brazil, proposed a workshop on the leadership of developed countries at the June session.
The US, SWITZERLAND, the EU, AOSIS, CHINA and NORWAY suggested concluding this item at the Bonn session.
Maldives, for AOSIS, lamented lack of progress in the consideration of the SED report, on capacity building and in improving the environmental integrity of Kyoto flexibility mechanisms.
South Africa acknowledged divergence regarding the scale of funding and, with Bangladesh, emphasized new additional and predictable funding, beyond current ODA levels.
The EIG, the EU, LDCs and the Marshall Islands stressed that international cooperative initiatives are not the most efficient option and urged focus should be on options with highest mitigation potential.
Several parties, including VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, UGANDA, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, BELIZE and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to focus on the revised text.
A confidence level was cited  following inputs from the US and Switzerland.
This was accepted by the G-77/China in a package that included agreement to further consider these issues at COP 15 and permit LDCs to submit second communications at their discretion.
Mali, for the African Group, stressed that the APA must be comprehensive, and reflect the “delicate” balance achieved in the Paris Agreement.
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Mali, Argentina, Brazil, Tanzania and Sudan objected, saying this would be best undertaken by the new Bureau.
JAMAICA and BURKINA FASO highlighted the special needs of least developed countries.
India and Pakistan highlighted the intellectual property rights regime as a barrier to technology transfer.
 In the SBI Plenary on Tuesday, 9 December, Argentina and Brazil opposed the Secretariat 92s practice of withholding financial support for the participation in UNFCCC-related meetings by Parties in arrears.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for quantifiable information on emissions reductions.
Peru, supported by Ecuador and Botswana, highlighted similar gaps in the areas of tropical forests and savannahs.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and AUSTRALIA stressed the role of the private sector and the advantages of issuer liability.
With those words, the debates that shaped agreement back in 1995 resurfaced, with an insistence on G-77/China involvement once again linked to the level of ambition acceptable by the US.
Expressing commitment to building more trust, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, wondered if the group’s views “still matter.” With the Maldives, for AOSIS, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, she sought clarification on the way forward and called for resuming the stocktaking after the G-77/China had finished their coordination.
 SPAIN and URUGUAY reflected on an Ibero-American initiative on climate change.
The EU proposed that parties discuss “how to do more and how to do it better.” He observed that many of the parties’ ideas were quite close to each other and CANADA pointed to the “common will in the room.” AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, proposed that the contact group discuss centers of excellence as a starting point.
China suggested that each Party should focus on promoting public awareness on the IPCC TAR, and Mauritius said Article 6 implementation should take place at the grassroots level in both developed and developing countries.
Invoking time constraints, China, supported by Saudi Arabia, argued that issues covered during the AWG round-table should not be negotiated by the AWG.
CMP 11 President Fabius invited, and parties agreed, to take note of the draft resolution presented by Morocco thanking France, as the host government, and the city of Paris .
Egypt, for the Arab Group, stressed that a second commitment period under the AWG-KP is “fundamental,” reiterating that efforts to impede agreement will be detrimental to developing countries.
On timing, the US and the Netherlands, supported by Australia, said the WG III report should be approved before the SYR, with the Netherlands calling for moving the SYR approval date from September to November 2014 and for asking the UNFCCC Secretariat to schedule COP 20 in December 2014 so the AR5 results could be presented to the COP.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, noted convergence on identifying elements for a Cancun outcome and called on parties to be flexible and accelerate the pace of negotiations.
The Russian Federation, Senegal and Saudi Arabia pointed to scientific literature on geoengineering solutions that should be included.
Iceland and Japan underscored sectoral approaches, while China opposed introducing new issues and concepts.
 On language saying that forest-related mitigation activities can considerably reduce emissions and increase removals by sinks at low cost, Tuvalu objected to the word “considerably” and, opposed by Canada, Colombia and Australia, proposed “initial” low costs.
 Pakistan, for the Group of 77 and China , emphasized an approach based on key principles stated in the Convention and Protocol and said advancing work under the AWG was an 93absolute imperative.
SUDAN suggested including text on sustainably-managed forests, while the EU proposed making forest management mandatory and said methodological issues should be further addressed to avoid double counting and improve consistency.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said it would announce its mid-term target next year, and, with INDIA and MEXICO, called for incentive-based sectoral approaches.QATAR supported sectoral approaches in principle but highlighted concerns such as lack of relevant expertise in most developing countries.
On access to information, India, with Benin, urged facilitating the access of developing country experts to international peer-reviewed journals and suggested using national communications as a source of information.
 South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with COSTA RICA and TURKEY, said a shared vision should cover the four building blocks.
AUSTRALIA and the EU suggested an additional function of determining whether or not a Party is in compliance with Article 3.1.
Gambia, for the LDCs, recommended cooperation between the UNFCCC and UNCCD.
On Saturday, 18 November, Bainimarama updated parties on seven additional deposited instruments of acceptance, by Belgium, Finland, Germany, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, and the UK, noting 54 additional instruments are required for the entry into force of the Doha Amendment.
 On a proposal by Belarus to use 1990 as its base-year, the EU said only COP/MOP has authority to decide on the issue.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, proposed break-out groups to address specific issues and urged focusing on streamlining the text.
 SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA said the comments from Parties contained in document FCCC/AGBM/1997/2/Add.1 should be included in the Framework Compilation.
Kiribati, for AOSIS, stressed the need for information dissemination reflecting the low level of connectivity in small island developing states  and streamlined and simplified funding mechanisms.
Participants debated whether to keep this sentence, with Denmark, Chile, France and Costa Rica voicing support for it, and Saudi Arabia objecting to targeting the energy supply sector alone.
On a paragraph noting that adaptation alone is not projected to cope with projected climate change effects and mitigation will be required, China and Saudi Arabia, opposed by Germany, Austria, Tuvalu, and others, proposed deleting the paragraph.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, also drew attention to gaps in terms of scaling up support, transparency, accounting, risk management and risk reduction strategies.
GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, said the Convention had gathered momentum since COP-1 and a ministerial segment will continue this.
CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that the TEC should be a strong entity with a role in guidance, setting up programmes and raising financial support, and said it should be independent and report directly to the COP.
On the update of a paper compiling pledges , SOUTH AFRICA, supported by the EU, NORWAY, BOLIVIA, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and the GAMBIA, proposed taking into consideration the information considered at this session, in particular the tables prepared by the Secretariat, showing the translation of current pledges into QELROs.
The EU, Switzerland, Australia and others highlighted the benefits of using standardized baselines under the CDM.
On finance , Costa Rica, for AILAC, asked for a clear roadmap, including a short-term goal, and balance between mitigation and adaptation.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, stressed that the guidelines can be adjusted later through a COP or COP/MOP decision and there is no need to add language in this regard.
Regarding ice sheets, the UK, supported by Switzerland, explained that referencing dynamical ice loss as half the cause of Greenland’s net mass loss could be misleading because it suggests that only half of the overall process is understood.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern with the compatibility of proposals on common mitigation frameworks with the Convention and the BAP.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND, stressed that all options in the text pertain to a second commitment period and emphasized that as they prepare to take on obligations for economy-wide emission reductions, they require clarity on what these commitments would entail.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested exploring schemes to make some technologies IPR-free.
Argentina, supported by the EU, and opposed by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, proposed reflecting in the conclusions that emissions from international aviation and maritime transport would be addressed by SBSTA-21.
Bolivia, for ALBA, underlined the need to avoid renegotiating the Paris Agreement and to reflect the Convention’s principles, including equity and CBDR.
China and Saudi Arabia said the levels of confidence could not be compared.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , underscored the importance of negotiations on Paris Agreement Article 6 and that the Nairobi Work Programme  should be enhanced.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the ministers should review the progress and assist in moving forward.
INDIA emphasized that technology transfer does not refer to commercial transfer but to concessional transfer, and SAUDI ARABIA stressed that relying on market mechanisms or introducing criteria for support contradicts the Convention.
Nepal, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , called for the international community to respond to the needs and priorities of LDCs.
BOLIVIA, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored that the language should reflect a “fulfillment of the commitments of developed countries,” rather than “contributions.”
Barbados, for AOSIS, said their proposal was coherent with the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund and would fund additional elements, such as addressing loss and damage, and insurance.
Australia underscored that rules and legal options must be clarified before pledges can be translated into QELROs, with New Zealand noting that party pledges are based on different assumptions.
INDONESIA and the GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT CENTRE pointed to the role of peatlands in the carbon cycle, and NEPAL stressed community forestry.
 The US, supported by Malaysia, said that the AGBM is still some distance away from a final text, and suggested that an agreement to modify the Convention could achieve the goal of a protocol without an elaborate legal instrument.
However, CANADA, NORWAY and the EU preferred wording that does not refer to specific organizations.
CHINA, supported by EGYPT and INDIA, requested clarifying the nature of the expected outcomes from SB 48, which the annotated agenda refers to as “recommendations.” Highlighting the APA Co-Chairs’ aim to have a negotiating text by the end of this session, CHINA asked whether work on this SBI agenda item and the item on LDCs would also lead to negotiating text.
Maldives, for AOSIS, urged the text to take into account the special needs of SIDS.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and INDIA underscored the importance of common accounting rules for comparability.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called on the CTCN to urgently address technologies to tackle the emission gap and commended the TEC for recognizing the importance of technology for adaptation.
Belize, for SICA, emphasized the need for environmentally-robust targets for mitigation and credible and actionable financial commitments that will enable direct access.
Mexico, supported by the US and Australia, and opposed by South Africa, China and the United Arab Emirates, proposed changing reference to e2 80 9cdeveloped country parties e2 80 9d to e2 80 9call parties, e2 80 9d noting that both developed and developing countries need to address barriers to technology transfer.
AUSTRALIA and the EU stressed the need to address emissions from international aviation and maritime transport.
KUWAIT disagreed with the EU, noting that this Convention was more far-reaching that the Montreal Protocol, and required a more "open-minded" process.
ALGERIA, with SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA, CHINA, MALAYSIA and EGYPT, opposed this as being premature.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for common understandings on specific information to be provided by “type of NDC.” Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for clarity on how the 2018 facilitative dialogue will be taken forward.
ROMANIA, speaking for the Group of Eastern European countries, and supported by the US, said JI and CDM have distinct roles and should not be treated in the same way.
THAILAND, supported by TUVALU, called for a table to clarify parties’ positions in order to facilitate discussions in Barcelona.
Brazil, Tanzania and Morocco underscored the need to avoid compromising the ability of developing countries to participate in the IPCC’s work in an effort to reduce expenditures.
The EU and UZBEKISTAN sought GEF resources to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their observational work.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that emissions must peak by 2015 to avoid catastrophic impacts for vulnerable countries such as SIDS, and to minimize the risks of irreversible impacts.
Austria, supported by Australia and Germany, focused on the importance of swift conclusions to inform the AR5 scoping meeting in July.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, with Barbados for the Caribbean Community , and many others, stressed a below 1.5 c2 b0C goal as critical.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, supported setting rules before agreeing on numbers, and called for: reference levels that allow crediting for mitigation actions and that avoid business-as-usual credits; and accounting for forest removals and emissions.
The EU suggested focusing on areas of convergence, and PAKISTAN and INDIA said convergence may be found by focusing on proposals in line with the Convention and the BAP.
Saudi Arabia, Bolivia and Venezuela opposed any change to the consensus rule.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that decisions should: lock-in achievements to date; outline pathways for further progress; and galvanize immediate action by implementing the Copenhagen Accord.
In elements for a draft COP/MOP-1 decision on this matter, the EU, SWITZERLAND and NORWAY disagreed over a US proposal, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA, to include text on ensuring that adjustment procedures are conservative so that Parties would not be unduly penalised.
The EU stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and strengthen the capacities of the LDCs to implement CDM projects.
BRAZIL, opposed by AUSTRALIA, argued that the list of issues for consideration during the Article 9 review in decision 3/CMP.3 is exhaustive.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that new processes requiring further political development, as well as unresolved issues, should continue to be considered by the AWG-LCA.
MALAYSIA and THAILAND proposed joint research projects between developed and developing countries.
The EU, Tuvalu, Samoa, China and Jamaica urged that the CDM exclude provision for sinks.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that the US presentation shifts the focus from the AGBM process.
On the paragraph on establishing a quota, Canada, supported by Japan, opposed identifying a specific percentage of CERs to come from countries with fewer than ten CDM projects, and Japan preferred language “encouraging parties” rather than “deciding” to use CERs coming from these countries.
The African Group reported that informal consultations among the G-77/China had produced two options, but that there had not been enough time for engagement with other parties.
Parties discussed principles of financing, with the EU, supported by New Zealand and Canada, suggesting that any financial architecture should be based on principles of effectiveness, efficiency and equity.
Stressing that “pre-2020 action is back,” Brazil, on behalf of BASIC, said that stocktake sessions on pre-2020 action will contribute to raising collective ambition.
Supported by HUNGARY, the US, CANADA, the EU, POLAND, SLOVENIA, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, and JAPAN, he introduced a draft text that, inter alia: notes Annex I Party commitments through 2014; considers that future Annex I commitments beyond that date should comprise the widest possible participation in binding action; recognizes the dependence of inception of non-Annex I Parties’ legally binding emissions limitations commitments on Annex I Parties\' implementation, particularly of Kyoto Protocol QELROs; agrees there should be further QELROs for Annex I Parties and “quantified emission limitation objectives” for other Parties, except least developed countries; and establishes a process to set the commitments, to be concluded by 2002.
While the Co-Chair implored delegates not to argue about restructuring, the US, France, Japan and Australia responded, since the issue of universality had been vigorously negotiated.
Iran, for the LMDCs, Peru, for AILAC, and Argentina, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, expressed support for the APA Co-Chairs.
Bubu Pateh Jallow, the Gambia, spoke about results-based educational activities, including a rainwater harvesting project in schools in the Seychelles.
JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized that QELROs should be seen in the broader context of AWG-LCA discussions.
The US responded that this change should await a written submission from the EU.
Welcoming the revised text, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, reported the group had agreed to "light touch editing" by the Secretariat, emphasizing they were ready to work on the basis of the resulting text.
He also noted, as the EU and Brazil stated, that national communications are not a one-time event.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed comparability and supported a five-year commitment period, allowing for response to emerging science and a deepening of commitments before 2020.
ZIMBABWE, on behalf of the Africa Group, said Annex I Parties have failed to assume leadership in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and lack political will to do so.
CANADA, supported by the US, suggested that raising the number of Parties necessary to trigger the MCP would make it less confrontational.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to operationalize the global goal on adaptation.
On the procedures to be followed, the US, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and SAMOA opposed text allowing flexibility to the enforcement branch in the application of the consequences for economies in transition.
Canada expressed interest in supporting the workshops, and Iran offered to host them.
On what adaptation communications seek to achieve, Thailand, for the G-77/China, emphasized the objective as catalyzing action by clearly communicating national needs, priorities and plans, and urged viewing adaptation communications as means to assist developing countries towards achieving the global goal on adaptation without being punitive.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said MRV of support is also being discussed in the ADP and called for: coherence and coordination; clarity on the level of financial support to developing countries; guidance on the third forum of the SCF; and finance for forests.
The COP convened presidency consultations on this issue, in conjunction with other issues related to mitigation, co-facilitated by Ola Elvestuen, Minister of Climate and Environment, Norway, and Masagos Zulkifli, Minister for the Environment and Water Resources, Singapore.
SAUDI ARABIA, SWITZERLAND, GREENPEACE and others expressed reservations about the proposed timing for deliberation on some issues, noting the relevance of the Special Report.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported reference to national communications and biennial update reports for communicating commitments, stressing the need to build on existing reporting modalities.
 Australia, on behalf of the Umbrella Group  developed countries), called for a comprehensive global agreement including a long-term aspirational goal to which all can contribute.
COSTA RICA, also speaking for Guatemala and Panama, said a long-term goal needs to be reflected as a numerical target based on science, and supported stabilizing concentrations at 350 ppm.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for full implementation of the CGE work programme, expressing concern over the lack of funding for regional workshops.
BRAZIL and CHINA expressed concern about gaps in pre-2020 support.
CHINA, for the LMDCs, and the EU noted that the paragraph e2 80 99s placement could suggest that the focus of workstream 2 is only on voluntary activities.
On finance, Preety Bhandari, Asian Development Bank, highlighted multilateral development banks’ 2015 portfolio of 20% for adaptation and 80% for mitigation, while the speakers from Belize and the UK stressed the need for balance between adaptation and mitigation finance.
The G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN, stressed the need to ensure that those developing country participants interested in attending are sponsored.
Noting developing countries require capacity to take action on climate change and deliver on the Paris agreement, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by JAMAICA, MEXICO and SENEGAL, suggested developed countries not think of capacity building as a liability, but as a collaborative approach to enabling all to contribute to the 2015 agreement.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, observed that discussions are now becoming more concrete, which he said was necessary to fulfill the Paris Agreement mandates.
On the pace of work, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the need for a e2 80 9cchange in gear e2 80 9d and a more workable text.
The EU and JAPAN stated that further discussion on technical aspects should only occur after the completion of the IPCC 92s work on good practice.
Nauru, for AOSIS, underscored that the overarching issue for consideration in Doha is the level of ambition of Annex I parties’ commitments, observing that the proposed QELROs derive from previous pledges that are “plainly inadequate” for the scale of the challenge.
CANADA, opposed by BRAZIL, preferred consideration of the issue under the AWG-LCA.
In the closing SBI plenary on 18 May, the UK said it “firmly rejects” Argentina’s objections, has no doubt about its sovereignty over the Falklands Islands, South Georgia, South Sandwich Islands and surrounding maritime areas, and is respecting the wishes of the Falkland Island people in this regard.
She supported “stabilization” of GHG emissions, and, with Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, opposed the inclusion of “decarbonization” and “carbon neutrality.” Bolivia called for the reinsertion of language on protecting the environmental integrity of Mother Earth.
The EU called for referencing human rights, while ZAMBIA expressed discomfort with such a reference.
BAHAMAS and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented the budgetary constraints affecting the Executive Committee.
Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of Lesotho, for the LDCs, noted progress by LDCs in developing their NAPAs and called for scaling up accessible, predictable and sustainable finance for LDCs that is additional to official development assistance.
Brazil, China and Japan underscored incomplete reporting of data, as well as the existing scientific uncertainties of measurement.
Noting diverging views, the US and India supported holding a conversation on text on intellectual property rights and a long-term technology goal.
Australia, the US and New Zealand supported legal expertise for the enforcement branch, but with access to technical expertise, when required.
China, with Venezuela, Bolivia, Brazil and Saudi Arabia, requested reference to international cooperation, with Brazil, China and Saudi Arabia adding that such cooperation must be perceived as equitable.
Grenada, for AOSIS, with VENEZUELA and others, underscored that the new text lacks sufficient ambition.
On the scope, the G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, suggested identifying areas, which are new to countries, like NAMAs and CCS.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said that the AGBM must move forward on emission targets.
The UK, Belgium and others were open to exploring contributions from UN entities and international and regional financial institutions.
Yugoslavia, opposed by the EU, said it could not support Croatia 92s proposal.
Venezuela, for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA , Argentina and El Salvador, called for Annex I countries e2 80 99 leadership on mitigation, and provision of finance and technology transfer.
Parties also heard proposals on how to cluster issues in the text for conceptual and structural clarity by the EU, the LMDCs and AILAC.
 INDIA supported the Malaysia proposal for a forum, and noted that early structuring of the TAPs will help the implementation process.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said pledges and actions from Copenhagen and Cancun should set the groundwork for future efforts.
The US and Australia expressed their trust in the professionalism of the evaluation panel.
CHINA, supported by JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, said Parties, not the EB, could determine criteria to determine contribution to sustainable development.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted that priority must be given to adaptation.
The US and EU supported moving paragraph 81 on reduced support to high-carbon investments under commitments/contributions/actions.
On the issue of Eligibility, TUVALU and PERU said activities under Article 3.3 subsequent to 1990 should not be eligible.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, called on parties to address the 2012-2020 funding gap; long-term finance; arrangements between the COP and the GCF; and MRV of financial support, particularly in light of new obligations from Durban.
China and India opposed phrases such as “willing to do so.”
Maldives, for AOSIS, and Republic of Korea, for the EIG, lamented the lack of progress on strengthening the CDM.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an effective global climate change framework and highlighted a package of elements that would enable progress and ensure environmental integrity, including: international consultation and analysis ; international assessment and review ; and MRV.
CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, specified that Protocol Article 18  refers to 93binding consequences 94 and opposed the proposed terminology change.
The US, AUSTRALIA and the UK suggested early introduction of agenda items on emissions scenarios, outreach and election procedures so that discussions could be held in smaller groups during IPCC-24.
Numerous countries, including NEW ZEALAND, ECUADOR, the EU and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported the document’s list of methodological issues that warrant special consideration.
Regarding a sentence on   in the form of civil war and intergroup violence by amplifying well-documented drivers of these conflicts, such as poverty and economic shocks, Venezuela, with Nicaragua, Bolivia and Ecuador, opposed reference to civil war.
He also stated that the refusal of some countries to support his proposal “left him wondering.” MALAYSIA stated that he was caught in surprise at COP-2 and felt an “air of conspiracy.” ARGENTINA reminded delegates that the SBI can provide recommendations to the COP but cannot decide what the COP will do.
 CHINA noted that the voluntary targets by the EU and Norway correspond to IPCC analysis on stabilization levels and urged other Annex I parties to come up with similar figures.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed reservations about reintroducing parties’ text, worrying it would create a “ballooned, un-navigable” text.
VENEZUELA, supported by COSTA RICA, suggested “historical responsibility” as an additional criterion for differentiation.
GEORGIA and AZERBAIJAN stressed continuing GEF support.
Stressing the importance of the paragraph, Zambia, for the LDCs, called for retaining the paragraph.
In response to Belgium, Saudi Arabia said the UNFCCC 92s aim is not to reduce oil dependency.
Tuvalu, supported by Saudi Arabia, AILAC and others, suggested adding a new paragraph, after clarifying that the ADP has finished its mandate, which decides to establish the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Outcome.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA and SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO said that the Croatian emissions estimates and projections are based on emissions not originating in Croatia 92s territory.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for effective MOI for the most vulnerable countries.
The EIG, supported by GEORGIA, suggested adding that the APA agrees to focus its further work in the upcoming session on substantive elements of the agreed working areas, which CHINA opposed, saying that this could imply that the APA was not already working on substantive matters.
IRAN, ARGENTINA and ALGERIA said that technology transfer should proceed under the principles and provisions of the Convention.
 With regard to paragraph III on the development and refinement of methodologies, AUSTRALIA said that brackets on "individual and" should be deleted but Kuwait disagreed.
The Republic of Korea said its BAU assumes a growth rate declining from 4.2 to 3.6% in 2020 and Singapore assumed a growth rate of 3-5%.
The LMDCs, the EIG and the UMBRELLA GROUP supported targeted parties’ submissions, and AOSIS and Guatemala, for AILAC, called for submissions on areas of convergence and divergence.
Trinidad and Tobago advocated identifying specific sectors.
BOLIVIA and COSTA RICA requested Chair Chow to formally seek technical advice from the LULUCF contact group.
BRAZIL, with GRENADA, suggested conceptual clarity around “accounting,” with BRAZIL stressing work should focus on tracking progress, not counting units.
ARGENTINA said that emissions reductions should be the priority objective of the negotiations and that the Umbrella Group 92s draft proposal was confusion on priorities.
Egypt, for the African Group, stressed the need for predictability and assessment of financing needs.
 On scope and key issues, several parties noted the need to address all elements of the transparency framework in a balanced manner, and Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized transparency of action and support.
Citing the need for transparency and accountability, BELGIUM and DENMARK called for making the simple model used to produce those graphics available with its source code and parameters.
AUSTRALIA, supported by BRAZIL, highlighted that institutional arrangements are contingent on decisions in the finance group.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted a new proposal on loss and damage.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, acknowledged that the Accord is a compromise and does not go far enough, but that further work should be conducted to improve it.
With Switzerland and India, he suggested further work on definitions.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that the G-77/China proposal intends to contribute towards assessing the progress towards the 2020 finance objective.
Australia and the EU responded that all efforts should be made to avoid the gap.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States , urged an ambitious outcome responding with the urgency needed and guaranteeing the long-term survival of small island developing states , LDCs, and other vulnerable groups.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the lack of questions from the Chair on IPRs and supported the establishment of a global technology transfer and IPR pool to ensure access by developing countries to technologies protected by IPRs.
 The US, Japan and the Russian Federation initially favored a zero nominal increase, while Nigeria, speaking for the G-77/China, opposed a reduction of the original proposal, and asked for the avoidance of any budgetary cuts that would affect activities directed at non-Annex I parties.
Egypt, for the African Group, explained that the proposed new finance board should allocate funding based on recommendations from technical committees established under the thematic areas.
This was supported by the Russian Federation, the EU and Australia.
Colombia, Paraguay and Chile said projects should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized the importance of enhancing MOI and strengthening MRV systems in the context of workstream 2.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT and TUNISIA, highlighted the need to extend the pilot phase and ensure greater geographical balance in projects.
NORWAY and the EU underscored their support for operationalizing the Fund, stressing the importance of identifying priorities and following similar procedures used in establishing the Least Developed Country  Fund.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA reiterated their disappointment, underscoring the need to amend the Convention to allow voting as a means of last resort so that progress cannot be “consistently blocked by one party.” BOLIVIA noted that they would continue to seek consensus on the inclusion of the proposed agenda item on the rights of nature and the integrity of ecosystems.
The US, with Japan, said natural effects cannot be factored out in a satisfactory manner.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with translation of documents and the multiplicity of contact- and sub-groups.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, JAPAN and US, questioned the utility of inter-sessional consultations on the TAR prior to SBSTA-19.
Norway and Brazil suggested markets be anchored in the agreement and details on markets be expressed in decisions.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the US and CANADA, supported adoption by a decision.
Peru, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama and Uruguay, urged agreement on a second commitment period as soon as possible to avoid critical increases in global temperatures.
SAUDI ARABIA, the EU, INDIA, IRAQ and CHINA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, preferred informal consultations.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted as difficult issues double counting in Agreement Article 6 and differentiation in discussions under Agreement Articles 9.5 and 9.7.
MEXICO, the PHILIPPINES and others said that relevant contextual elements need to be defined.
He also said that two applications, from Energy Research Austria and the Industrial Technology Research Institute, submitted for IPCC-30, were pending due to reservations expressed by Austria and China, respectively.
FRANCE and GERMANY questioned whether work on aerosols is sufficiently advanced to give rise to work on inventories.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a durable, fair and effective legally-binding outcome that includes mitigation contributions by all major emitters.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that discussions under the ADP must be party-driven, fully inclusive and transparent, and that the outcome should be in accordance with equity and the CBDR principle.
NEW ZEALAND supported considering national circumstances in the draft conclusions, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested this was particularly important for market mechanisms.
 REPUBLIC OF KOREA said Annex I countries should take the lead in disseminating technology and, with MEXICO, proposed starting with a stocktaking exercise.
The UNFCCC Meeting on Socioeconomic Information under the NWP was held from 10-12 March 2008, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.
NORWAY and BURKINA FASO supported holding the high-level ministerial segment at the end of each session, while the US, BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA supported holding it at the beginning of the sessions.
Ministerial observers from Lesotho and the Maldives also participated in the session, together with additional observers from Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, and Norway.
AUSTRALIA and the US discussed the proposed eight-year work programme with a mid-term review in 2016.
Following these discussions, a proposal on HWPs was presented to the co-facilitators by Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, the Russian Federation and Switzerland.
Egypt, for G-77/CHINA, highlighted a lack of balance in the Co-Chairs’ draft texts, underscoring concerns regarding, inter alia: flexibilities in the transparency framework; differentiation in guidance on NDCs; “essential elements” missing from the compliance text; and a “lack of engagement” on important issues on Agreement Article 9.5.
Norway and others observed links with NAPs, which the Arab Group, said could be a starting point.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, supported a short meeting of only the AWGs.
The US supported Australia, but said that in the interest of a successful outcome at COP-6, the text should focus only on those issues addressed in Article 3.14.
GUYANA and the EU agreed on a focus on scope and principles but cautioned that discussion should not be limited to these issues.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said next week’s discussions should focus on, inter alia: the outcome of Doha; the 2013 workplan; and closing the ambition gap in 2013.
The US, supported by POLAND, said it would be better to use exact IPCC wording because the SAR is a negotiated text.
Peru, speaking for a number of countries, with Egypt and Colombia, opposed a new classification of developing countries to assess vulnerability.
The AWG-KP closing plenary was suspended twice for informal consultations facilitated by Adrian Macey , who reported that concerns expressed by the Russian Federation could be addressed by amending the text, while Japan’s concerns could not be easily addressed, as they related to the work of the AWG-LCA.
Saint Lucia, supported by AILAC, opposed, stressing the long-term temperature goal should be in the agreement.
The G-77/CHINA and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated that a shared vision should be aspirational and inspirational, based on the principles and implementation of the Convention, and should treat all building blocks equally.
Peru, for AILAC, underscored the adoption of a gender action plan as an important COP 23 deliverable.
SWITZERLAND, with AUSTRALIA and VENEZUELA, supported including health.
INDIA, BHUTAN, BANGLADESH and KIRIBATI highlighted the importance of obtaining GEF financing for national communications.
BANGLEDESH, with the EU and CANADA, supported the extension of the LEG ef bf bds mandate, and, with CANADA, highlighted complimentarity between the LDC Fund and the SCCF.
CHINA, INDIA and SINGAPORE, opposed by the US, suggested that India’s proposal relating to prohibiting unilateral trade measures against exports from developing countries should also be included in the preambular part of the shared vision section.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/ CHINA, objected to text referring to information exchange among "all Parties," and to text "inviting Annex I Parties and other interested Parties" to share information during informal round-tables.
 An afternoon Round Table considered Quantified Emissions Limitations and Reduction Objectives  with discussants from Germany, Japan, Samoa, the Russian Federation, the Philippines, and ABARE Commodity Forecasting and Economic Policy Research.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed regional adaptation centers and encouraging financial institutions to provide information to an international clearinghouse and registry on adaptation.
On  , Senegal, for the African Group, and the LDCs supported a geographically balanced system of quotas.
BARBADOS, supported by BRAZIL and INDIA, expressed concern over potentially limiting discussions on these questions, emphasizing the workstream’s more “expansive mandate.” He recommended focusing on the emission reduction options identified in UNEP’s Emissions Gap Report, including strengthening LULUCF rules, avoiding double counting, and delivering on means of implementation.
 Brazil and India, supported by Norway, favored using the term “energy efficiency” as energy intensity and per capita income may not increase linearly with development.
On a paragraph on intensified consideration by the ADP of the elements for a draft negotiating text reflected in Annex I, with a view to making available a negotiating text for a protocol, another legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention applicable to all parties before May 2015, Venezuela, with Nicaragua, opposed including the elements text in an annex.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed adaptation and the adverse impacts of response measures.
The US proposed reducing the UNFCCC budget by US$2 million, while Japan proposed reducing the overall budget by US$3 million.
JAPAN suggested differentiating among countries for provision of financial and technological support and, with AUSTRALIA, supported focusing on the existing financial architecture.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, said the beginning of the PCCB’s work is a “step in the right direction” and stressed the importance of establishing a public registry for NDCs.
With the Russian Federation, she called for flexibility for countries with EIT.
Mexico, for the EIG, expressed commitment to avoid a gap between commitment periods, while highlighting links between the two negotiating tracks.
AUSTRALIA and the US proposed language on convening a contact group during SBSTA-5 to further this work.
On ways to increase regional and international cooperation, participants recognized that CARICOM and the EU offered good examples of successful cooperation and recommended creating regional centers where they do not exist and reinforcing existing ones.
In response to interventions from Zimbabwe, Switzerland, and Singapore, a reference to differing potential for climate-resilient development pathways being due to different “starting points” was changed to refer to different “systemic vulnerabilities.”
JAPAN underscored that ocean storage potential varies regionally, and that Japan has more potential for ocean than geological storage.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the need to respect the balance between the two negotiating tracks and emphasized that the outcome should not compromise or prejudge the overall objective of reaching a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally-binding outcome in the future.
The G77/CHINA called for: GEF adherence to COP guidance; no funding of activities inconsistent with FCCC principles; and, with EGYPT, attention to adaptation measures.
Mexico, for the EIG, stated that the context of the conclusion of the work of the AWG-KP will be the conclusion of the work of the AWG-LCA and meaningful progress under the ADP.
On aligning with the US, Canada emphasized that this does not mean his country would only act when the US acts.
e2 80 9d Addressing the box in the longer report, the UK, Australia, the US, Japan, Canada and the EU expressed reservations on using the authors e2 80 99 text as a basis for discussion.
ARGENTINA, for Algeria, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, reiterated that all ADP work is under the Convention and must adhere to the Convention principles, and said universality of application is not uniformity of application.
However, Egypt, India and the Philippines voiced strong objections.
On possible workshops, Finland, supported by the US and Canada, proposed structuring workshops on adaptation along four themes: tools and data requirements and availability; critical issues; monitoring and evaluation tools; and best practices, and the US, supported by Saudi Arabia, stressed a sectoral approach to the workshops.
JAPAN and the US proposed a separate informal session to revise the guidelines and a joint contact group between the SBSTA and SBI was established for this purpose.
Canada, the US, Japan and Australia, opposed by the EU, urged bracketing all references to the "consultative process."
On Wednesday, 3 December, many developing countries continued to call for showing their proposals on the screen, while the US preferred to continue with a more general reading of the text to identify “the major issues in the negotiations.” Tuvalu suggested, and parties agreed to, establishing a Friends of the Chair group to reach agreement on the way forward.
Tuvalu, the Cook Islands and others preferred a  93learning-by-doing 94 approach, and called for the inclusion of reference to SIDS.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said the agenda will require persistent work, flexibility and resolution of underlying issues to enable a successful outcome in Durban.
The LMDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by AOSIS, called for identifying opportunities for actions with high adaptation potential, in addition to mitigation, and, opposed by AUSTRALIA, for text differentiating between mitigation opportunities in developed and developing countries.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said that guidance on features and accounting should be concise, bottom-up, and non-prescriptive, and that NDCs are “full scope.” Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern over bifurcation and scope, as well as the “degree of legal bindingness” reflected in the text.
CANADA, the SEYCHELLES and others expressed concern at further changes that might dilute the text.
NORWAY, with the EU, AUSTRALIA, the US and CANADA, stated that: the national communications and their reviews were important to the Convention process; reporting issues and guidelines required increased attention; and the Secretariat should conduct more analytical work.
The compliance drafting group met in an afternoon session to consider the section on consequences of the Co-Chairs 92 non-paper on outstanding issues and to discuss a new proposal from CANADA, JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA for the draft COP decision.
UGANDA, IRAN and MALAYSIA urged further efforts with regard to transfer of technology, financial resources and capacity-building.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SWITZERLAND, JAPAN, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by the LDCs, suggested replacing e2 80 9con the basis of e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cby furthering the consideration of e2 80 9d annex I, and, supported by the LDCs and opposed by the LMDCs and BRAZIL, including reference to the ADP preparing e2 80 9cany related decisions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, expressed support for the Chair’s paper proposing elements of a possible outcome, stating that it reflects the elements of the BAP.
Saudi Arabia and Switzerland expressed concern regarding the number of pages proposed for the cross-chapter paper on deserts, semi-arid areas and desertification  and mountains , noting more pages may be required.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for two iterations of text on all agenda items to ensure balanced progress.
In response to the EU, AOSIS and the LDCs noted that the principles should not create obstacles in accessing financing.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed an international capacity-building mechanism, comprised of a coordination center that compiles information; analyzes gaps and trends; develops tools and methodologies; matches available support with identified needs; and coordinates and cooperates with UNFCCC bodies and other relevant entities.
 : CHINA, BRAZIL, and BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, said an increase in emissions from some Annex B countries should be reflected in the conclusions.
The US and Singapore welcomed the adoption of CORSIA and the IMO’s amendment of the MARPOL Convention on fuel consumption by ships, with Singapore stressing the need to develop long-term measures on shipping emissions.
Portugal, for the EU, stated that the EU is fully convinced of the urgency of enhancing international cooperation in order to rapidly accelerate the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies.
France, with Belgium, lamented that no translations of SR15 into other UN languages exist yet on the website.
GUYANA and PAPUA NEW GUINEA supported discussion on financing, highlighting the centrality of finance to success.
South Africa suggested that a mid-term review would act as an “early warning system.” New Zealand said that science would give a picture of the global state of action required.
 : Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, proposed establishing a REDD+ Committee under the COP.
SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL and CHINA cautioned against “cherry picking” from the SED report.
In a presentation on the effect of surplus AAUs and different LULUCF accounting schemes on actual emissions, Spain, for the EU, emphasized the need to know rules before setting reduction targets.
Pakistan, on behalf of the G-77/China, expressed the Group 92s continued commitment to the WSSD and noted concerns that Parties were failing to fulfill their Rio commitments.
Nicaragua, for SICA, urged for a consistent approach to means of implementation  access.
ARGENTINA stressed its support for the G-77 and China statement and said that the analyses and assessments should proceed "side-by-side" with negotiations.
Nigeria expressed concern that different transaction costs would reduce CDM take-up and, with India, China, Bolivia and South Africa, proposed similar requirements for JI.
BRAZIL said the attempt to reopen discussion of all elements of the Kyoto Protocol is an “attempt to kill the Kyoto Protocol.” AUSTRALIA noted that there is no point continuing discussions in the numbers group if discussions on option B are not undertaken, due to the need for legal certainty on their proposals.
The G-77/ China, supported by Argentina, the Alliance of Small Island States , Saudi Arabia and other developing countries, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement on the financial mechanism.
CHINA and NEW ZEALAND shared views on processes under the Convention facilitating the identification and assessment of risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems.
Slovenia, the Russian Federation, Maldives, Peru and others opposed such a reference, while the US, supported by Canada, suggested using “family relationship” to capture the concepts of “spouse and minor children” as written in the original version of the Task Group proposal.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, regretted that, while the Paris Agreement has entered into force, the Doha Amendment has not and underscored this “unfinished business” must be urgently addressed.
The AFRICAN GROUP, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed references to outside processes.
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for: a higher level of ambition; swiftly resolving the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs; and restricting the flexibility mechanisms to parties entering a second commitment period.
 Spain, for the EU, stated that the EU’s emissions in 2008 decreased domestically by 11.3% compared to 1990 levels and welcomed advances made on key elements such as adaptation, finance, national communications and Convention Article 6.
AOSIS, supported by Tuvalu, suggested differentiating between enabling activities and implementation.
The US, on behalf of NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN, announced that this group would submit a proposal for a draft decision.
Swaziland, for the African Group, stressed that the meeting should focus only on rules that will apply during the second commitment period and necessary amendments, and refer consequential amendments to the SBs for future consideration.
She said that it is with great pride that Uganda continues to participate actively in the work of the IPCC and hosts this meeting, and thanked Norway, which co-funded the session.
During the final consideration of this item on 9 June, Norway and the US proposed, opposed by the G-77/China and South Africa, moving to conceptual discussions.
CHINA and BOLIVIA said a comparison table is premature.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, called for balance between the two negotiating tracks and balanced decisions within each track, without compromising the overall objective of a comprehensive, ambitious and legally-binding outcome.
In addition, noting that Protocol Article 4 foresees the possibility of parties fulfilling their commitments jointly, the EU explained that the commitment inscribed in Protocol Annex B for the EU, Croatia and Iceland for the second commitment period is based on the understanding that this commitment will be fulfilled jointly.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , called for a work programme that is applicable to all, balanced, and comprehensive.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted progress on REDD and the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
Sudan highlighted the need for greater cooperation between the Convention and multilateral processes, while Brazil noted the importance of national focal points in promoting synergies of the programme of work with other multilateral environmental agreements.
New Zealand and the US preferred Alternative A and are flexible on either a 2/3 or 3/4 majority.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that reaching an agreement on the second commitment period is a legal obligation and stressed the need for clear commitments by Annex I parties, in line with science.
South Africa’s and Saint Lucia’s proposals, in addition to better integrating cities into AR6, proved agreeable.
 Maldives, speaking for AOSIS and the LDCs, said urgent emissions reductions are needed, hoped that lower stabilization scenarios below 550 ppm would be analyzed, and looked forward to developing a timetable for completing the AWG’s work in Bali.
Spain reported on an informal meeting jointly organized with Mexico and South Africa to discuss the legal form of the AWG-LCA outcome.
The EU, opposed by Argentina, noted that the substantive text applicable to “all” parties was being streamlined while numerous options referring to developed countries remained in the text, underscoring this could be an unbalanced approach.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , highlighted that Cancun is the “time to deliver” and said the Group “cannot and will not accept further delays.” He noted that good progress has been made on adaptation, finance, REDD+, capacity building and technology, but that mitigation, and MRV are outstanding issues also required for a balanced package.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, Peru and Uruguay, expressed “great interest” in the proposal by AOSIS.
VENEZUELA said the CDM has a “shameful” record on hydrochlorofluorocarbons , which increase pollution, while BOLIVIA highlighted their negative experiences with CDM projects.
On the uses of a sectoral approach, Bangladesh, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , discussed various options including the development of tools and technologies to identify emission reduction potentials and barriers to reductions in certain sectors.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , urged more time to address the balance between different elements, differentiation, and the assessment process for INDCs.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, asked that the view that loss and damage should be a separate section be clearly reflected.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NEW ZEALAND, proposed the wording "key" categories to limit the consideration of numbers of sources and sinks.
The US, EU and AUSTRALIA objected to this suggestion.
Australia supported Belgium and cautioned against setting a precedent where governments can remove dedicated Bureau members.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, hoped the Talanoas would refocus parties towards the 1.5 c2 b0C vision.
The UN Climate Change Conference convened from 6-17 November 2017, in Bonn, Germany under the Presidency of Fiji.
The US, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN jointly presented proposals on each of the key themes.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, highlighted the shared understanding that our partners 93will not leave us again 94 and that 93we are taking this step together.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said Annex I countries should adopt the Toronto Target of 20 percent CO2 reductions below 1990 levels by 2005 and require non-CO2 targets at an appropriate time.
Germany, Finland, New Zealand, Spain and others defended keeping medium-confidence events.
Many delegations recorded objections, including SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, QATAR, NIGERIA, OMAN, UAE, KUWAIT, LEBANON, CHINA, SYRIA and JORDAN.
Noting positive GEF reforms resulting in increased access to funds for LDCs, the Gambia expressed hope that the fifth replenishment would enhance funding under the Least Developed Country Fund.
ICELAND, NORWAY and FINLAND pointed to the Arctic assessment of climate change, which shows that the Arctic climate is warming rapidly.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the capacity needs of developing countries around undertaking assessments, and, with SINGAPORE, called for developing clear recommendations for specific actions.
Following protracted discussions, Saudi Arabia said it could accept, in the spirit of compromise, the figure as amended by Austria.
Christ explained that the Saudi Arabian and Bolivian reservations had already been attached to the IPCC-39 report, and that Venezuela e2 80 99s reservation would be added.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the conference has resulted in enough to allow parties to proceed with trust, hope and expectation of more progress in South Africa in 2011.
Honduras, for SICA, reaffirmed adaptation as the main priority, requesting serious advancement during the next negotiating session to ensure actions and results that favor reduction of vulnerability in their region.
Brazil and AOSIS warned against e2 80 9cministerial fatigue.
India underscored the need to identify sources within and outside the UNFCCC and called for reviewing the ToR of the “financial bodies.” Mauritania said the allocation of financial resources should be based on criteria of justice and fairness.
India, for the G-77/China, noted that there may be substantive outcomes on technology from Copenhagen and suggested tailoring the EGTT’s work programme to consider such outcomes.
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia suggested adding socioeconomic reviews to scientific and technical considerations by SBSTA.
The EU and Australia, opposed by Malaysia, China and Argentina, said the report provided a sound basis to initiate the revised guidelines.
Five party submissions  on the fund and an oversight body were submitted from Bangladesh, the EU, the LDCs, the G-77/China, and the US.
Singapore, for AOSIS, presented a framing paragraph for this section of the agreement, conveying that developed countries shall provide adequate support for effective participation of developing countries in the transparency system.
MALAYSIA, SENEGAL, NAMIBIA, BRAZIL, and ERITREA underscored the need for Article 6 activities to be country driven.
Nauru, on behalf of AOSIS, called for a comprehensive roadmap by 2013 to identify the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions as quickly as possible.
BOLIVIA highlighted the structural link between climate change and markets and BANGLADESH noted that it is “ironic” that markets are proposed as the solution for a problem they have caused.
e2 80 9cIn the spirit of compromise, e2 80 9d several groups and delegates, including Malaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, Iran, for the LMDCs, and Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed concern over: the lack of balance in the text; lack of adequate time for consideration of the text; and the danger of prejudging the outcome of the Paris agreement.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that building a new regime takes time, identifying Durban as the next step in the process that can move forward the Cancun undertakings.
Saudi Arabia, for the Group of 77 and China , said the group would accept the draft text as a basis for negotiations on the understanding that parties could present new ideas in Katowice.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , called for COP 23 to work on developing implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement, clarifying the Talanoa Dialogue design, and advancing the Global Climate Action Agenda.
Regarding text on a framework for capacity building for developing countries that refers to a special fund to support implementation of this framework by the LDCs, the US said he believed that many elements of this framework are relevant for GEF funding, although some may not be.
ARGENTINA, AUSTRALIA, the US, the EU and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed to explore criteria for differentiation.
Tanzania, for the AFRICA GROUP, called for measures to improve African participation in the CDM, such as channeling CDM proceeds to capacity building in the region.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, said that the negative implications of response measures on developing countries must be minimized.
Supported by BRAZIL, AUSTRALIA, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA and CANADA, the US opposed harmonized measures and advocated flexibility through national programmes geared to national circumstances.
The EU and SWITZERLAND referred to the transparency framework outputs.
Lamenting the inclusion of aviation emissions under the EU ETS, SAUDI ARABIA stressed that the ICAO deters states from taking unilateral actions until its recommendations are developed.
Norway stressed the importance clarifying risk related to overshoot scenarios, and the UK cautioned against mentioning them.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, opposed by SLOVENIA, supported one combined session for the sake of efficiency, noting some details need to be clarified.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported by the EU and NEW ZEALAND, welcomed the Chairs’ proposal to discuss all options.
The EU, Canada and Japan opposed.
BRAZIL, with CHINA and THAILAND, strongly objected to reference to the CDM and the continued attempts to link technology transfer under the UNFCCC to the Protocol.
BURKINA FASO, THAILAND, and AZERBAIJAN called for translations of guidelines.
Karl Hood, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that a system based on multilateral rules is essential for the survival of vulnerable countries.
 On “evidence,” China, India, South Africa and others noted that “evidence” can be understood as 100% proof, particularly in other languages, and proposed alternative terminology.
On defining co-benefits, the G-77/CHINA requested that energy efficiency be included; COLOMBIA, with BOLIVIA, suggested that social benefits be included; INDIA called for poverty alleviation to be added; and SENEGAL requested that mention be made of negative spillover effects and sustainable development.
The EU noted the positive informal consultation in Bali last week on the Adaptation Fund, and the LDCs said the Fund needs an independent secretariat and management structure.
Parties discussed: the need for efficient, effective and transparent mechanisms; the G-77/China’s proposed multilateral technology fund; Mexico’s proposed Green Fund; and the use of an integrated financial architecture vs. the use of a sector- or area-specific approach.
CHINA, INDIA and the PHILIPPINES stressed the urgency of setting mid-term emission reduction targets for developed countries.
VENEZUELA said the organization of the COP was the responsibility of the FCCC and the recommendations on equal treatment and transparency were not directed at Argentina.
New Zealand, with Japan and Canada, said that caps would create a disincentive for LULUCF mitigation efforts.
Mexico, for the EIG, recalled the need to finish work under the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP in order to move towards a “technical or implementation phase,” and underscored the relevance of the SBI towards operationalizing the Bali Action Plan.
Norway, supported by Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands and Japan, asked for reinsertion of CCS as an example of mitigation options, noting this was done in AR5.
On adaptation communications, the EIG, Maldives, for AOSIS, the LDCs, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, supported a call for focused submissions.
INDIA, KUWAIT, CHILE and CHINA objected to a reference to the need for information "in evolving commitments for all Parties."
The African Group, supported by the LDCs, called for a focus on actions rather than processes.
The COOK ISLANDS, for AOSIS, underscored the need for financial and technical resources.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: Participants considered a draft text compiling proposals by the EU, the G-77/CHINA and others.
CANADA, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern with the manner in which the issue of linkages between compliance and eligibility to participate in the mechanisms was dealt with in the mechanisms contact group Thursday evening.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted that there was agreement among the EITs on the principles and scope of the framework, but stated that consultations to complete an EIT group submission were ongoing.
Among the issues discussed in the group was a proposal by Poland to include reference to EITs, which Brazil said was not explicitly reflected in Article 4.5.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reiterated points contained in their proposal, including the application of emission limits to only Annex I Parties and the distinction between joint activities and joint implementation.
AOSIS and the African Group highlighted the need to extend the CGE’s term at least until 2016 and said its mandate should encompass a number of roles.
Maldives, for the LDCs, complained of funding delays for implementing national adaptation programmes of action .
 India, for the G-77/China, called for balanced geographical representation in the UNFCCC Secretariat, neutrality in preparing documents, and equity in the allocation of resources for issues concerning developing and developed countries.
Mexico, supported by Bolivia, called for the creation of a database of applicants for each region and greater sensitivity in the selection process to prevent discouraging scientists who are not selected.
Regarding a statement that  , the UK, supported by Finland, called for its deletion.
AILAC, CHINA and AOSIS noted links between adaptation communications and the global stocktake.
Spain, for the European Union , stressed the need to “frankly assess” lessons from Copenhagen, improve the organization and methods of work and enhance confidence in the process and among parties.
The US suggested sections on: general framing for national adaptation plans; a process on enabling the LDCs to formulate and implement those plans; and inviting other developing countries to employ the modalities for the plans.
South Africa, China and several others highlighted the need for comparable efforts, and underlined that all developed countries should set legally binding, quantitative and economy-wide emission reduction targets.
The US, the EU, New Zealand, Canada and AILAC supported a facilitative compliance mechanism, applicable to all.
MEXICO, presenting a Mexico-AILAC proposal, with JORDAN, supported a global goal that includes an aspirational vision.
NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stressed that agreement on commitments could not be reached until rules are clarified.
INDIA stressed fundamental differences concerning mitigation under paragraphs 1 and 1, and, with the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that MRV is also different under these paragraphs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP and Belarus, noted that all Umbrella Group members are willing to take on further commitments in the post-2012 period, as reflected in the annex to the Copenhagen Accord.
Belize, for AOSIS, said that a distinction between plans and strategies, and NAMAs, should be maintained.
Opposed by UGANDA, SWITZERLAND proposed conducting a compilation and synthesis of the first NAPAs.
On how developed countries shall achieve their QELROs, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with COSTA RICA, stressed this should be done primarily through domestic emission reductions, and CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that the use of offsetting mechanisms weakens emission reduction commitments.
COLOMBIA, with URUGUAY, BOLIVIA and CHILE, called for small-scale sinks projects.
The G-77/CHINA, EU and JAPAN distributed draft proposals and delegates discussed, inter alia, the nature of co-financing for GEF projects.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that the GCF continues to serve all developing countries in the Convention.
Several delegates, including NORWAY, the PHILIPPINES, the US and others, proposed workshops on issues related to finance.
AOSIS expressed “incomprehension of objections” to compiling peer-reviewed scientific studies, but noted that “limited opposition” to the proposal “holds the promise of common consensus.” BOLIVIA regretted lack of agreement to analyze the 1°C target.
On the appeal by Croatia, BOLIVIA proposed broadening the scope of a proposed technical paper, aimed at outlining the process and applicable rules for the consideration of appeals, to include the consideration of legally-binding consequences for non-compliance.
The EU supported regional centers with strong operational links to the private sector, academic institutions and other research centers and welcomed a discussion of how the G-77/China’s proposal would work in practice.
BRAZIL, supported by Chile, for AILAC, suggested that developed countries e2 80 9cshall, e2 80 9d in their INDCs, communicate their financial support targets, and policies and measures for technology development and transfer and capacity building, taking into account national circumstances.
COLOMBIA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC and others supported transferring work to the SBs in a focused and structured manner.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, CANADA and CHILE emphasized a country-driven approach.
The EU, Japan, Australia, US and Canada agreed to drop a reference to a three-year project preparation period and proposed an additional reference, stating that any extensions will not imply additional GEF funding.
In view of the workload to meet the Buenos Aires Plan of Action , the US, with CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, said COP-6 should be held early in 2001 with various intersessional activities on the run-up.
Australia, the EU, New Zealand, Switzerland, the US, Canada, Japan and others expressed reservations about this sub-section.
Tanzania and Mali called for REDD methodologies to consider benefits for local communities.
PANAMA, also speaking for Colombia, Chile, Mexico, Guatemala, Peru, Uruguay and the Dominican Republic, stressed the importance of making progress on REDD, including participation of all developing countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, identified ways to enhance action, including: making better use of existing institutions; exploring new multilateral avenues for action; and establishing enduring institutional support for high-level engagement.
France, on behalf of the EU, proposed that the Interim Secretariat, in cooperation with the GEF Secretariat and interested non-Annex I Parties, draw up guidelines for national communications by developing countries to be endorsed at COP-1.
Belgium, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, and the Maldives expressed concern at the lack of response from UN organizations.
In general comments, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, supported by Guatemala for AILAC, Tuvalu, for LDCs, Malaysia for the LMDCs, and Egypt, called for clear reference in the preambular paragraphs to the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular CBDRRC.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that the fourth review should be a full review of the financial mechanism and not just a review of the operating entity.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that requests for inputs should not lead to "an open season" for data gathering, some of which may be superfluous.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION OF RAINFOREST NATIONS, COSTA RICA and INDONESIA noted that a link to financing for a three-phased approach had been lost.
COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, BOLIVIA and others opposed the proposal.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, emphasized the need to resolve technical issues on the flexibility mechanisms, the basket of methodological issues and LULUCF accounting rules.
MALAYSIA, for the G-77/ China, expressed hope that the new agenda items will not introduce new commitments for developing country Parties, and emphasized that SBSTA should not focus on long-term planning of adaptation and mitigation issues given the urgency of adaptation needs.
On a   for emission reductions, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, said that minimizing impacts of climate change on SIDS and the LDCs should be the benchmark, and proposed global emission reductions of 85% by 2050 from 1990 levels, with peaking by 2015, complemented by reductions by Annex I countries of more than 95% by 2050 from 1990 levels.
The EU and AUSTRALIA maintained that Turkey should indicate willingness to undertake Protocol obligations under Article 10 before its deletion from the Annexes.
France, on behalf of the EU, added "bearing in mind the discussions on the subject held during INC-10 and 11" to the preamble.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, expressed concern at the slow disbursement of funds for the preparation of national adaptation programmes of action .
MALAWI and BENIN welcomed the production of the brochure and other outreach activities, while SYRIA, IRAN, GHANA, the GAMBIA, SIERRA LEONE, KENYA and others stressed the importance of assistance to developing countries.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, lamented that the level of funding available under the LDC Fund is insufficient to meet the costs of implementing submitted NAPAs.
The LDCs, New Zealand, Norway, the US and Canada suggested the Secretariat could prepare a synthesis report or other paper as input to the workshop, while the Arab Group considered this premature.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized commitment to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities , and procedural transparency and inclusiveness.
94 Germany, France, Hungary, the Netherlands, Japan, Norway, Belgium and Spain, opposed by the US, Saudi Arabia and Egypt, urged keeping detailed examples of such effects.
JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BRAZIL and SWITZERLAND opposed this division.
Algeria, China, Ghana, Mali and others questioned a map that showed a high increase in water runoff in the Sahara.
Brazil, on behalf of ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, AND URUGUAY, said that although there was progress during the week, the current status of negotiation showed a “clear misbalance across different topics.”
Upon resumption, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, KUWAIT and QATAR, said they could not accept the proposed compromise, which would have included reference to spillover effects.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and New Zealand, also called for reference to remedies in the text.
JAPAN and CANADA supported the item on voluntary commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
Germany and Canada suggested a new sentence highlighting the increased warming trend in the last 25 years.
The US supported sharing information on evaluation techniques for selecting appropriate P&amp;Ms. SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/ CHINA, highlighted the need to minimize the impact of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms on developing countries, while observing that it had yet to develop a position on the compilation document.
New Zealand, opposed by Canada, proposed replacing reference to e2 80 9cevolutions e2 80 9d with e2 80 9ctrajectories.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA and EU, suggested withdrawing the appendix on elaborating guidelines on national systems relating to AA units and/or PAAs.
China and the US queried the scenarios used for the carbon budget and related uncertainties.
e2 80 9d After some debate and other textual suggestions by India and the Bahamas, participants agreed to text saying e2 80 9cmost plant species cannot naturally shift their geographical ranges.
Iran, for the G-77/China, stated that neither COP-7 nor the WSSD was the appropriate forum for raising the issue of new commitments for developing countries.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a technical paper reflecting policy options for specific mitigation solutions in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy and carbon capture and storage.
Drawing attention to the numerous existing cycles, China and Iran cautioned against adding cycles to the process.
 Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted the IPCC 92s Fourth Assessment Report  and called for urgent action.
Spain with the US, Saint Lucia and others, requested adding text on fisheries.
 Austria, speaking on behalf of the EU, underscored the 2oC temperature target, noting that a decrease in emissions of 15-50% was required by 2050.
With the US, she underlined the need for certainty and due process, and with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed the EU proposal for a powerful Chair.
Belize, for AOSIS, lamented the inclusion of “dynamism” in mobilization.
Cuba, for a number of developing countries including the AFRICAN GROUP and the ARAB GROUP, opposed the establishment of a global target for the shipping sector.
Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed putting the long-term temperature goal at the heart of the agreement.
BENIN, supported by UGANDA and CHAD, said that scientific assessments were difficult for developing countries in Africa and stressed the need to improve human resource development.
Ecuador, for ALBA, emphasized developed country mitigation as a critical pending issue from the BAP.
AUSTRALIA noted the value of the synthesis of views on a future work programme on methodological work and, with the EU, stressed the need for a data interface.
On the budget for conference services, the US, Japan and Canada said conference expenses should be borne by the UNFCCC budget and not the regular budget of the UN General Assembly .
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, said that burden-sharing cannot be discussed without identifying the burden first.
The US, supported by the Netherlands, warned that if the question of the financial mechanism is left open, it will sow doubt among people outside this process.
Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada, for AOSIS, called on all countries to work together to ensure that the Copenhagen outcomes fulfill the hopes and aspirations of millions of people “depending on us to do the right thing to help them stay alive.” He stressed that all countries must take “strong measures” to achieve needed emission reductions to achieve the goal of limiting temperature increase to well below 1.5°C and atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations to below 350 ppm, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities.
The Russian Federation underscored that he had requested the floor before the COP/CMP President gaveled the Doha Climate Gateway package, and stressed his expectation that the President would introduce the proposal submitted by the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Belarus on the CMP outcome to the plenary.
SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and Spain, for the EU, highlighted the need for the conclusions to reflect the context of the contact group’s work.
On the section on Protocol Article 3.14, the US, with the EU and several other developed countries, noted that it dealt primarily with the impact of response measures, and suggested merging it with the previous section that directly addressed this issue.
The CZECH REPUBLIC, with HUNGARY and SLOVENIA, supported the inclusion of Item 6 and noted that it could foster useful debate and dialogue.
MOROCCO, for G-77/China, called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol and for the US to "come back on board," and expressed concern about the low level of financial contributions to the Secretariat.
Stella Gama, Malawi, and Chrisda Kaeti, Kiribati, shared their experiences as beneficiaries of the Women Delegates Fund, highlighting its value and urging its expansion.
TUVALU expressed concern about accounting crossover between wetlands, cropland and grazing land, and the EU cautioned against the potential for double counting.
Angola, for the LDCs, called for a long-term global temperature rise limit to be set below 1.5 c2 b0C in the new agreement, underscored the special circumstances of LDCs and lamented the lack of resources for LDCs.
NORWAY, the EU and JAPAN opposed an ex ante process to commit to quantified support commensurate with the ambition reflected in the adaptation and mitigation goals, with the EU signaling this as e2 80 9ca red line.
Ecuador called for language on “respect for traditional knowledge.” Costa Rica, with the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, Sudan and Tanzania, highlighted the need to address sustainable livelihoods.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance for the UNFCCC and the IPCC to align assessment report cycles with global stocktakes.
New Zealand, with the US, emphasized the importance of the regional chapters under WG II.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, noted, inter alia, that risk reduction and management should: have a special window in the financial mechanism; address both extreme and slow onset events; and include both risk reduction and insurance components.
Expressing concern over inadequate pledges, the Gambia, on behalf of the LDCs, supported a five-year second commitment period as well as a cap on transfers of surplus units in order to ensure environmental integrity.
GRENADA and BRAZIL opposed the proposal for a full-time chair, noting the existence of a full-time Secretariat and highlighting that the proposal would only favor those countries that can afford to support a full-time chair.
GUYANA, CHINA and others emphasized that the Protocol must continue into the second commitment period.
Several delegates, including GERMANY, AUSTRIA, EGYPT, the UK, and the NETHERLANDS, proposed amendments to text in the table caption that would state that more research and development could reduce costs and improve reliability and safety.
The UK, with Slovenia, noted that holding approval sessions just after UNFCCC meetings minimizes the impact of IPCC products.
JAMAICA, SIERRA LEONE and others proposed regional training workshops to help build capacity of prospective NIEs.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed the need to identify and prioritize options with high mitigation potential.
 , eSwatini, supported by Zimbabwe, South Africa, and Tanzania, questioned language calling for “effective governance,” and proposed replacing it with reference to “sustainable land management.” Germany, supported by the Dominican Republic, Switzerland, Norway, Ireland, Poland, and Luxembourg, argued that effective governance was broader than sustainable land management, in that it involves, inter alia, administering participatory approaches, conserving carbon stocks, and undertaking measurement and verification.
KYRGYZSTAN and TAJIKISTAN underlined the importance of addressing mountain ecosystems.
 Spain, for the EU, welcomed the fifth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility , and progress by the Adaptation Fund Board.
94 GERMANY highlighted that ocean and geological storage potential cannot be directly compared given their different retention times, and JAPAN noted that this difference is addressed elsewhere in the SPM.
China, supported by Poland and Korea, requested deleting "establish a process" and the second sentence referring to the modalities and schedule of the process.
France and Germany opposed the deletion, stressing the need to point to possibly avoidable impacts.
Mali, for the G-77/China, outlined elements of the group e2 80 99s proposal: a pre-2020 ambition work programme; an accelerated implementation process; an adaptation TEP; and a high-level engagement component.
NEW ZEALAND and others, opposed by ALGERIA and others, urged the use of national communications to identify consequences.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, CHILE, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and others said discussion on reference levels should be a priority.
MEXICO, with KUWAIT, underlined uncertainty over the nature of NAMAs.
JAPAN opposed separating human-induced and natural effects, while SWITZERLAND underscored that the integrity of the Protocol depends on their separation.
A number of Annex I Parties raised concerns about the proposal, with the US and SWITZERLAND noting similar discussions taking place in the CGE group, and the EU suggesting that the groups might be combined at some point.
Colombia and Canada supported a multi-window fund.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Pakistan and India, asked that the text explain that the underlying analysis actually focuses on differences between 1 c2 b0C and 2 c2 b0C scenarios, and a footnote to that effect was proposed.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to consider linkages between the AWGs and achieve an ambitious and comprehensive legally-binding agreement.
Finland, on behalf of the European Union , highlighted the Stern Review and stressed the need for long-term action where adaptation complements mitigation.
POLAND said there should be an equal number of Protocol Annex B and non-Annex B Parties, and AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, added that the composition would depend on the article under review.
On monitoring and review of capacity-building support, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SAINT LUCIA, requested that the section title be changed from “monitoring and review” of capacity-building support and action, to either “assessing delivery of” or “assessing and evaluating” capacity building.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by CANADA, and opposed by the EU and JAPAN, suggested text noting that the conclusions complete the work under the agenda sub-item.
The EU, JAPAN and others strongly supported the role of NGOs and remained open to tailoring different consultative mechanisms for different NGO constituencies.
Parties also deliberated on the role of the Protocol, with the G-77/China and AOSIS supporting a reference to the ongoing role of the Protocol and Canada opposing it saying it prejudges the legal form of the outcome.
The EU recognized Kazakhstan’s aspiration to join Annex B, while highlighting the need to comply with legal requirements relating to Annex B amendments.
Instead of referring to “full cost of adaptation,” as suggested by the EU, delegates agreed to Tuvalu’s proposal that the funding will “assist in meeting the cost of adaptation.”
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized the need to: preserve the balance between issues laid out in the Paris Agreement; achieve a consistent package reflecting parties’ textual submissions; and bear in mind national circumstances.
The US, with the EU and Australia, said capacity building should be integrated throughout the relevant chapters in the draft negotiating text.
The EIG, supported by the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs, the EU and NORWAY, proposed one day for mitigation, two days for transparency, and, with ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, one day for adaptation communications.
Stressing that this is for the SBI to decide, NORWAY, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU, supported a proposal by NEW ZEALAND to invite the SBI to give appropriate consideration to the issue in considering funding options.
The EU, G-77/ CHINA and SWITZERLAND emphasized the need to design guidelines according to specific country needs.
India, Brazil and others stressed that NAMAs are separate from the CDM.
Tonga, for AOSIS, called for a decision at COP 17 on activities under the work programme on loss and damage and agreement on the goal of establishing an international mechanism on loss and damage at COP 18.
Canada pointed to EGTT’s proposals on financing, and Tanzania underscored compliance with financing commitments.
e2 80 9d CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA preferred to e2 80 9ctake note of e2 80 9d rather than e2 80 9cuse e2 80 9d information.
AWG-KP Chair Dovland noted parallel discussions under the AWG-LCA and, supported by JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, suggested discussing the addition of new mechanisms through an “academic” seminar in Bangkok.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted problems in receiving financial and technical support for non-Annex I national communications.
TUVALU suggested that e2 80 9cincluding provisions on accounting e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cspecific needs of countries with special circumstances in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS e2 80 9d can be applied to all themes.
On  , Spain and Algeria noted consultations on the establishment of an adaptation committee, facilitation of access to funds, an international mechanism to address loss and damage, as well as consolidation of regional centers.
The UK, CHILE, MICRONESIA, COOK ISLANDS, SWITZERLAND, the US, TUVALU, AOSIS, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRIA, KIRIBATI, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, FRANCE, the GAMBIA, BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA, SLOVENIA, NORWAY, POLAND, BELGIUM and GERMANY supported the adoption of the Co-Chairs 92 draft decision in its current form.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, preferred working from existing informal notes, saying that too few items are mature enough for a single progress document.
 Noting the lack of resolution on the low-stabilization scenario, Australia, supported by the US, stressed the need to develop new scenarios on clear scientific and technical grounds.
Australia, with Japan and others, said the consolidated text was not an appropriate basis for contact group discussion, and proposed revisiting the compilation of Parties 92 views.
SAUDI ARABIA and several other developing countries, opposed by AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, supported continuing work on the basis of the Co-Chairs 92 consolidated text.
On  , Senegal and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported retaining this option and highlighted the need to improve access to the CDM.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the overarching message from the political phase must be one of urgency, of more ambitious near-term action, and ensuring net-zero emissions and a phasing out coal by 2050.
Argentina, the LDCs, the African Group, Saudi Arabia and China, for the LMDCs, emphasized differentiation, with many calling for maintaining the existing “two-track” approach to MRV.
BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, the US, IRAN, HONDURAS and NORWAY supported the inclusion of sinks projects in the CDM on the grounds that, inter alia: nearly one-fifth of global emissions come from deforestation and almost 90% of emissions from tropical countries are from LULUCF activities.
SIERRA LEONE, supported by MALAWI, TIMOR-LESTE and ALGERIA, said delays in finalizing national communications are often due to difficulties with the implementing agencies, and called for improved communication between the GEF and implementing agencies.
On the plenary of the Compliance Committee, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, EU, AUSTRALIA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND, said it should have an allocation as well as a preliminary examination function.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored significant progress by the AWG-KP, saying that much of the technical work has been done.
CHINA and MALAYSIA expressed concern regarding a reference to peer review of national communications and emissions trading.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, underscored the group’s  commitment to goodwill and expressed concern over the repeated use of the refrain “the world has changed.” Asking developed countries to take the lead, CHINA underlined that an ambitious Paris outcome should give equal weight to all of the Durban mandate components.
 CHINA criticized the US presentation for changing the direction of the AGBM, failing to link development with the existing economic structure of a country and considering only the industrial development that has occurred since 1990.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU and US, advocated extending the rigors of the CDM to JI.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR supported adding protection of the integrity of Mother Earth and the right to development.
Japan highlighted the relevance of sectoral approaches, while India said global sectoral approaches are not appropriate for developing countries.
COLOMBIA, INDIA and SOUTH AFRICA opposed reference to “benchmarks,” with INDIA and others highlighting the need to avoid external standards.
KUWAIT, SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA opposed language on limiting CCS under the CDM to geological formations.
Annex II of the CMP decision contains political declarations on surplus AAUs, where Australia, the EU and its member states, Japan, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Norway and Switzerland declare that they will not purchase/use surplus AAUs carried over from the first commitment period.
Lesotho, for LDCs, highlighted that the key guiding principle should be avoiding adverse impacts on the most vulnerable countries and called on developed countries to provide adequate financial support for adaptation actions.
Australia, New Zealand, Iceland and others urged reviewing the rules on LULUCF and flexible mechanisms.
Barbados, for AOSIS, and others supported addressing all four blocks at each session.
UKRAINE, supported by CANADA, COLOMBIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others, proposed a table or matrix to compare the various proposals and criteria for market mechanisms.
NORWAY highlighted links between this issue and his auctioning proposal under the AWG-LCA, while TUVALU opposed linking this issue to the AWG-LCA.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed her expectation that this session will identify options and provide full textual narratives on all PAWP agenda items.
She also expressed support for Ireland’s proposal to critically review the Rules of Procedure and suggested that the agenda item proposed by South Africa could be broadened to cover that.
She further noted that the approval of the Summary for the Special Report on renewable energy will move from December 2010 to February 2011 and will be held in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
On paragraph 7 on challenges of assessing potential consequences, the EU, opposed by South Africa, for the G-77/China, proposed replacing reference to “the assessment of consequences of tools, policies, measures and methodologies available to Annex I Parties” with “the assessment of consequences of mitigation actions taken by Parties.” Both options remain in the text.
Noting consensus is needed for adopting conclusions, Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that this issue deserves consideration.
Tanzania, with the G-77/China, suggested that adaptation be seen in the context of sustainable development.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU supported the calendar of events.
JAPAN, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, underscored that both AWGs go “hand in hand.” The EU cautioned against a “narrow understanding” of the Convention and emphasized Annex I countries’ willingness in taking the lead with deep emission reductions.
After further discussion, SINGAPORE proposed combining item 3 as amended by the Philippines and item 4 as amended by himself.
On the latter, Germany said that this would depend on the definitions of different scenarios, while Argentina said that different scenarios are not comparable and therefore the costs and impacts are not comparable.
The US and JAPAN lamented that the G-77/China had not reached convergence on workstream 1 .
CANADA and the PHILIPPINES shared experiences on the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with CANADA underscoring the need to share sound scientific and technical information on agriculture in a more formal mode under the SBSTA.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, he called for a decision to restrict access to the flexibility mechanisms to those Annex I parties that take on commitments under the second commitment period.
The Maldives, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , supported enhancing the financial mechanism under the COP, and highlighted the importance of national adaptation programmes of action  and the need for progress on the Nairobi Work Programme .
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed relevant work under the AWG-LCA, the Article 9 review and REDD, and proposed joint sessions for the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
On institutional arrangements, the ARAB GROUP, with CHINA, called for deletion of reference to sub-national, national and regional emissions trading schemes.
The EU, supported by MONACO, noted the need to specify ways to facilitate cooperation and stressed coordination of IPCC and FCCC activities through a joint working group.
Panelists also considered: the use of biodigestors and future technology needs for mitigation and rural development in China; the co-benefits of mitigation in terms of biodiversity conservation and poverty alleviation; the prospects for achieving sustainable forest management in the context of the Convention; the status of techniques for monitoring emission reductions from deforestation in tropical forests; the contribution of the EU ef bf bds common agricultural and rural development policies to address climate change; the potential options for mitigating livestock emissions in New Zealand; and experiences from modern biomass utilization in the power sector in Denmark.
The EU urged parties to accept the new text as the basis for negotiations in Copenhagen and the US underscored the need for concise and streamlined text on a shared vision.
Indonesia identified the need to review the rules for the CDM, and Malaysia proposed addressing complex procedures and high transaction costs under the CDM.
Japan preferred absolute emission reductions, while Tuvalu said having multiple metrics would complicate things.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for further work on ambition of targets and development of a common accounting framework to ensure comparability of mitigation efforts.
New Zealand, Switzerland and others, opposed by the G-77/China, noted the linkages between this process and the one for Article 9.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, supported doing this at COP-8, underscoring the relevant COP-5 decision that had scheduled this for COP-7, and stressed that it was not acceptable to postpone this for longer than one year.
 CHINA, supported by the EU, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, welcomed the document and requested more time for its consideration.
On displaced emissions and national and/or sub-national approaches, the US, Colombia and others objected to text on exploring how sub-national approaches can be used in the development of national approaches, stating that this raises national approaches over sub-national ones.
VENEZUELA, CHINA and MALI said IAR should contain, in part, a compliance mechanism.
JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA and others also opposed discussions by the contact group of issues relating to the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
Countries also highlighted New Zealand’s efforts on sustainable agriculture and livestock production, and Pakistan’s climate change bill and Green Pakistan Programme.
Regarding the bullet point addressing system transitions, Germany, supported by Belgium and Mexico, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, requested removing reference to “transitions” and reverting to the original formulation of “transformations,” noting these concepts imply alternate meanings.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the group would work as hard and constructively as possible to conclude comprehensive and robust guidance for the Paris Agreement.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA to deliver on a mandate to negotiate a parallel protocol, to be completed by December 2012, which provides for comparable mitigation commitments for developed countries that do not have mitigation commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, supported by the EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY and JAPAN, said she was not in a position to work towards the establishment of an international mechanism and would like to consider a range of approaches.
BOLIVIA and Singapore, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , supported reference to a 1.5 c2 b0C goal.
TUVALU and SOUTH AFRICA stressed the need to consider fundamental concepts such as supplementarity.
MAURITANIA, CHAD and MOROCCO underscored the need for capacity building for national climate change focal points, the US highlighted the role of the private sector in capacity building, and BOTSWANA supported the establishment of an expert group.
ARGENTINA requested clarification on whether Belarus was applying UNFCCC Article 4.6 , and Chair Stoycheva said this was not the case.
Mexico, India, Panama and others noted the need to consider additionality, while Brazil highlighted that environmental integrity must be ensured when improving the CDM.
Noting uneven progress across facilitated groups, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, Angola, for the LDCs, Maldives, for AOSIS, Guatemala, for AILAC, Bolivia, for ALBA, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for clarity on the intended outcome of this session, and for a clear mandate for the co-facilitators.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN, pledged support for the efforts to adopt a legally-binding, equitable and ambitious agreement.
Australia, supported by the US, felt that this was not consistent with the rest of the document since it was a selective representation of views.
BARBADOS, with AUSTRALIA, reported on a seminar on innovative approaches to loss and damage held in Bonn on Sunday, 5 June.
VENEZUELA and THAILAND said that technology transfer cannot depend on AIJ activities because these are still in a pilot stage.
NIGERIA and VENEZUELA said the mechanisms would be insufficient to ameliorate the impacts of climate change.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with language requiring all parties, in accordance with respective capabilities, to report on policies concerning mobilizing public and private financial resources.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for: reaching agreement on a five-year second commitment period with 1990 as the single, legally-binding, base year; agreeing on LULUCF accounting rules; identifying feasible ways to address surplus assigned amount units ; agreeing on a transparent process to transform mitigation pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives ; and increasing the aggregate level of ambition.
Brazil, with the EU, stated that adaptation does not possess the characteristics of a collective action problem.
On Monday morning, SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, said that there could be no progress on P&amp;Ms until there was progress on other issues.
Peru, for Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, highlighted the need for reassurance that developed countries will take the lead through ambitious and binding climate action and reliable finance.
Tanzania, Zambia, Chad, and Malawi supported maintaining and enhancing support for the Scholarship Programme.
A contact group was supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/China, and opposed by Australia, Switzerland, the EU and Norway.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for the ADP to outline a clear plan for taking forward the work required to deliver its mandate.
Austria noted the work of the Convention of Biological Diversity  and of the Ad-Hoc Technical Expert Group on Biological Diversity and Climate Change, and Peru drew attention to the upcoming IPCC Fourth Assessment Report .
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized: dynamic differentiation between parties according to CBDR and equity; and the need to catalyze means of implementation and climate-friendly investment.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed appreciation for the contributions made by donors to the Adaptation Fund and said the group looks forward to ensuring the continuity of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said a shared vision means developed countries taking the lead in reducing emissions and developing countries pursuing a clean development path avoiding past mistakes, with adaptation as an integral element.
In the contact group, Brazil, seconded by Peru, also proposed, and WGIII agreed to, a footnote on uncertainty in land use, land-use change and forestry measurements.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by MAURITIUS for the G-77/ CHINA, said Parties should respect the "gentleman 92s agreement" with ICAO, and should only take up methodological issues further if ICAO considers that SBSTA has the expertise to do so.
On the   New Zealand highlighted actual emissions as the preferable starting point, with the EU noting that the starting point has significant implications for QELROs.
COLOMBIA, for Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala and Peru, supported the engagement of ministers to address crucial issues discussed under the AWG-KP and emphasized the need for a party-driven process, particularly in the preparation of the AWG-LCA text.
The EU and NORWAY opposed the linkage with Article 2.3, while SAUDI ARABIA supported it.
Mexico proposed, on behalf of Chile, Belgium and Kenya, that the IPCC begin a process at the next plenary to amend the mandate of the TFI to allow methodology reports to address methodological issues related to short-term climate forcing factors such as black carbon.
On Referral, the US, SOUTH AFRICA and SWITZERLAND, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, favored a role for reports by expert review teams .
Tanzania, with Egypt, supported IPCC Vice-Chair van Ypersele’s wording and requested qualifying CLAs and LAs with those “particularly in developing countries.” Van Ypersele noted that authors in developed countries also sometimes have difficulties, although Egypt, supported by South Africa and Saudi Arabia, noted that this phrase would not limit assistance only to developing countries.
SINGAPORE and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized national circumstances.
Angola, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , suggested references to IPCC reports and party inputs, and the need for deep emission cuts.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, said he was pleased to have adopted the rules, but lamented parties’ inability to complete work on Article 6 and called for further addressing loss and damage.
Supported by NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, the EU proposed to move paragraph 133.2 on strengthening the Technology Mechanism to decision text, noting that these issues are currently discussed under the COP.
 Australia, speaking for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the Adaptation Fund, the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments, and the AWG discussions.
However, Japan, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Barbados, the EU, Ghana and Australia supported the establishment of the shared vision contact group maintaining that this had been agreed at AWG-LCA 3.
 On 24 October, the EU, opposed by the US and the G-77/China, proposed an agenda item on the methodological issues relating to the stabilization of greenhouse gas emissions.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, stressed that he fears a “mitigation-centric regime in the making,” where the urgent adaptation needs of developing countries are relegated to “second-class status.” He underscored that efforts to strengthen the regime must recall the principles of CBDR and equity.
Javier Diaz on a joint proposal from Cyprus and the EU to amend Annex I to the Convention to include Cyprus.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted progress, but said significant differences remain and expressed disappointment with some parties’ insistence on working outside existing mandates.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for the inclusion of capacity-building support for NDCs.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU were not prepared to speak on the issue.
On additional activities during the first commitment period, the EU, TUVALU, CHINA, NORWAY and MALAYSIA, opposed by JAPAN, said these should not be pursued.
The SUDAN and SENEGAL said it was premature to decide on the inclusion of sinks, as the IPCC report had just been released.
The G-77/China and the US stressed the need to keep the two AWGs as separate and parallel processes, while others, including Switzerland, Canada and Australia, highlighted interlinkages.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said that guidance on features and accounting should be concise, bottom-up, and non-prescriptive, and that NDCs are “full scope.” Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern over bifurcation and scope, as well as the “degree of legal bindingness” reflected in the text.
Noting the increase in hurricane intensity, Jamaica stressed attending to the needs of the most vulnerable countries, while Ukraine emphasized the needs of all countries.
 KUWAIT, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA supported the proposal by the G-77/China.
AOSIS highlighted the role of scientific information in defining a long-term goal, and MICRONESIA called for an iterative approach as science evolves.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and UZBEKISTAN said that capacity building was necessary to take full advantage of the clean development mechanism .
Mexico, Singapore, Canada and the US proposed that the International Maritime Organization  and International Civil Aviation Organization  take the lead in addressing bunker fuels.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for focusing on how actions would be implemented and opposed consideration of proposals inconsistent with the Convention.
Sudan, for the African Group, noted progress on purpose  in informal consultations, but lamented, with Australia, for the Umbrella Group, that in other areas parties held to positions and did not engage in the negotiations.
The European Union , supported by Luxembourg, argued that including such a generic qualifier in the introduction to an IPCC report would be unusual, noting that if no literature exists on a subject, it cannot be assessed.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, urged moving towards textual negotiations, while the US, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, and AUSTRALIA, preferred discussing elements of the informal note before starting textual negotiations.
Opposed by the US, the EU then proposed two new options, which request Parties to decide on only one instead of two indicative scales.
Cuba, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America , consisting of Antigua and Barbuda, Bolivia, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Venezuela, called for developed countries to honor their climate debt and rejected attempts to transfer responsibilities to developing countries.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported the inclusion of new documented greenhouse gases and the improvement of the flexibility mechanisms.
GABON expressed unease with “full and prior consent.” BOLIVIA, with MALAYSIA, INDONESIA and COLOMBIA, stressed that the text needs to be consistent with national legislation.
Sudan, for the African Group, noted that important issues have been left out of the agreement, but expressed certainty that parties will address these issues.
SAMOA, supported by the EU, reminded Parties of the agreement at Kyoto that the COP/MOP would not deal with routine CDM concerns.
CANADA and JAPAN also requested more detailed information on specific sections of the document.
INDIA, supported by THAILAND and IRAN, noted that the improved guidelines should not exceed the UNFCCC 92s reporting requirements.
Commenting on the structure of the non-paper, the EU and ARGENTINA said the text “was disconnected” and that there was no common understanding on the use of terminology, such as technology action plans and roadmaps for specific technologies.
CHINA underscored the importance of agriculture for food security, poverty reduction and sustainable development, and with SOUTH AFRICA, indicated that adaptation is more important than mitigation in this sector.
Regarding a sentence describing sinks covered by CDR, Pakistan, supported by Ukraine, proposed deleting text stating that “natural CO2 sinks” are excluded from CDR, arguing that it may be confusing to specifically exclude such sinks when anthropogenic enhancement of them is covered.
Canada, supported by Argentina, South Africa, for the African Group, Japan, Ethiopia and Mexico, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed deleting a paragraph stating that NAMAs shall not include technologies that have adverse impacts on the environment, such as nuclear power and large-scale hydropower.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested noting that the APA will require additional time for work in 2017.
Saudi Arabia indicated support if mitigation and adaptation were at the same legal “level.” New Zealand said it could support the second option as a starting point, and could look into a proposal to add references to adaptation, noting such references should not define “contributions” nor be mandatory.
On the annex , Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested consideration of mitigation, adaptation and MOI options with and without differentiation.
On  , Tuvalu and Brazil highlighted legal implications of a gap for the flexibility mechanisms, in particular the CDM, and other institutional arrangements in the Marrakesh Accords.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said drafting groups could report back in the morning and issues could then be forwarded to the political level.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by MALAYSIA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, MICRONESIA, IRAN, INDIA, the PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, NIGERIA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA and THAILAND, emphasized that all sections of Article 4.1 must be considered equally and in an integrated manner.
India, Nepal and Thailand highlighted the need to keep REDD-plus separate from NAMAs.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, applauded broad progress made in Bangkok but pointed to a lack of advancement on specific items.
BELARUS highlighted the needs of countries with economies in transition for technologies and capacity building, and GUYANA noted that areas such as adaptation, technology and REDD-plus offer “low-hanging fruit” for early action.
With SWITZERLAND and the US, she suggested focusing on operational elements.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for parallel progress on all tracks of work and stressed that developed countries should not transfer their responsibilities to developing countries.
The status of the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova , regarding their status under the UNFCCC was addressed in the SBI Plenary on Friday, 6 June, and Friday, 13 June.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, suggested that an ex ante review only cover mitigation and MOI, not adaptation.
The US, AUSTRALIA and CANADA argued that decision text relating to verification and accountability procedures for legal entities should be addressed by the contact group on Articles 5,7 and 8.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and KYRGYZSTAN supported the proposal.
The US and EU requested that text on the provision of financial and technical support for the implementation of the framework through the "GEF within its mandate" be bracketed.
IRAN and the DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA lamented access “being withheld on political grounds.” Several delegates noted consultations underway on related issues, asking for clarification on the sequence for adopting the draft guidance.
Australia supported one commitment period of five or eight years and the EU proposed one commitment period of eight years.
FIJI, SEYCHELLES and others urged keeping warming as far below 2 b0C as possible.
He called for an agreement in the early part of this week on biennial reports, biennial update reports and, with JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, urged progress on issues related to transparency, including IAR and ICA.
The EU, Norway, the US, Japan and other developed countries identified the ADP as the appropriate place for discussing mitigation ambition.
Australia, the EU, Norway and Switzerland emphasized the importance of framing Kyoto Protocol commitments in the context of a global legally-binding agreement.
CHINA, supported by JAPAN, INDIA, MALAYSIA and BOTSWANA, highlighted the importance of building endogenous capacity in developing countries.
NEW ZEALAND commented that the new instrument should pave the way for future global action, but MOROCCO and SAUDI ARABIA stated that action after COP-3 exceeds the Berlin Mandate.
 The EU, CANADA, and JAPAN, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, supported the exchange of information on, inter alia, methods, models, and assumptions regarding projec ef bf bdtions.
The UK, supported by Estonia, called for specifying the relevant range of dates, from pre-industrial times to 2017, and text was inserted to reflect this.
The US, GHANA, ZIMBABWE, CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA and IRAN said the Secretariat should not be included.
Panel presentations by Ecuador, for the LMDCs, Switzerland, the US, Mali, for the LDCs, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  highlighted the need to, inter alia: include information on how support is addressing country-driven strategies; avoid double counting by multiple actors; improve methodologies on multilateral flows and mobilized private finance, and collective reporting by developed countries towards the US$100 billion goal; differentiate between reporting and accounting; clarify additionality; and capture the emergence of new actors.
 Thailand, for G-77/CHINA, stressed: adaptation communications as an input to the global stocktake and guidance aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity; and increasing resilience without creating additional burdens.
India suggested adding a reference to Articles 4.3, 4.5 and 4.7 in paragraph 7 to emphasize the importance of technology transfer, but the UK and the US did not want to reference any articles.
Switzerland, for the EIG, urged agreement on LULUCF accounting rules, flexible mechanisms, length of commitment period after 2012, transformation of pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives , and the basket of gases.
PERU, for Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica and Panama, said parties in Durban decided to bring the AWG-LCA to its operative end, which implies the need to define next steps for implementation and closure of the negotiation track.
 During the ensuing debate, one participant urged removing the “fear syndrome,” bottlenecks in methodologies, and loopholes, and stressed the importance of a fair, harmonized, rule-based approach.The EU sought clarification from the US about: states, such as California, planning to use offsets and how they would ensure double counting is avoided; possible banking and borrowing from earlier years if using a point year target; and what rules would be used for the treatment of natural disturbances and whether the Kyoto Protocol rules should be used.
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, urged Annex I parties to close the gap between the current emission reduction pledges and what is required by science.
BRAZIL, with AOSIS, PERU and ARGENTINA, preferred a focused approach and suggested holding a technical workshop after COP-10 that would consider submissions by Parties and possibly biome-specific definitions.
Several countries, such as BURKINA FASO, NIGERIA and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, stressed the need to wait until the end of the AIJ pilot phase before drawing conclusions on its viability.
JAPAN highlighted the potential of sectoral approaches in achieving global emission reductions, and NEW ZEALAND supported analyzing other types of commitments in addition to quantified targets.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, CANADA and the US stressed continued use of the existing Technology Mechanism.
The suggestions that were not ultimately incorporated included South Africa’s suggestion for changes in the wording to indicate that new climate data derives from broader coverage; Argentina’s proposal to note the lack of data from certain regions; and China’s call for referencing outstanding uncertainties.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, further expressed concern with references to “those in a position to do so” and called for the reinstatement of adaptation co-benefits coming in the “form” of mitigation.
Nicaragua expressed support for the creation of the Green Climate Fund while criticizing the transparency of fast start finance and the absence of identified funding sources, and supported Ecuador’s proposal on ways to capitalize the fund.
The Netherlands and Canada responded that the question of permanency should not be postponed and rejected the Co-Chair"s proposal.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the 1.5ºC target is at risk and urgent decisions must be taken.
 Canada, supported by Austria, Sudan and many others, stressed the need to avoid limiting the programme of work to decision 1/CP.10, saying that the programme of work should serve as a broad framework to stimulate investment and work outside the Convention.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS, NORWAY, MICRONESIA and INDIA favored deferring consideration of this issue and requesting Parties to submit comments.
The EU and the UMBRELLA GROUP called for agreement on modalities and procedures for the technical experts for ICA.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said the US presentation distracts from the BM\'s focus on commitments by Annex I Parties.
Republic of Korea, also for the EIG, said lessons learned through the facilitative sharing of views would help inform the transparency work under the Paris Agreement and encouraged parties to participate.
Germany, with Denmark and Norway, objected to undertaking such a methodological report saying that its uptake by the UNFCCC was uncertain, and called for working with supplements to the guidelines that could more easily be adopted.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA noted inclusion of revegetation on degraded lands as a point of convergence.
SAUDIA ARABIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, the US, IRAN and BANGLADESH, objected to restricting the roundtable to ministers, saying all heads of delegations should be welcome regardless of rank.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, with BANGLADESH and ERITREA, highlighted LDCs 92 difficulties in developing national communications and called on SBSTA to address financial support.
On the Functions of the compliance body, the G-77/China, with Saudi Arabia and Samoa, opposed a screening function.
The US, supported by JAPAN and HUNGARY, proposed, on the linkage between the FCCC articles and the Protocol provisions, replacing a reference to "a joint approach to consideration of the issues" with a reference to an amendment to the provisional agenda item under which the Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 were placed in parentheses.
China, with Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Tunisia, highlighted the need to extend the pilot phase and ensure greater geographic balance in projects.
NORWAY and the GAMBIA identified women and children as the most vulnerable.
Belgium and Germany made separate proposals for the replacement of Bureau members in midstream.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, requested a specific reference stating that the workshop last "for at least three days," but NEW ZEALAND and SAUDI ARABIA objected and the request was withdrawn.
Colombia, for AILAC, signaled concern for the allocation of time to item 5, and with the lack of progress on Agreement Article 9.5 .
On  Australia, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, South Africa, Hungary, Pakistan, Denmark and others expressed interest in an SR in this area.
LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP and AOSIS expressed readiness to work on framing the decision.
POLAND said reduced emission levels in countries with economies in transition helped to offset slight increases by OECD country Parties.
Germany, the UK, the Authors and others opposed, with the UK noting that the issue was not addressed by WGII precisely because it was considered a cross-cutting issue to be addressed in the synthesis.
A number of parties, including China, Canada and Saudi Arabia, called for consensus on the legal form of the agreement before discussing compliance in-depth.
On adaptation and mitigation options and responses, the US, supported by New Zealand, Germany, the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia, suggested that authors should consider the same factors for both adaptation and mitigation.
The G-77/China, opposed by the US, New Zealand and Australia, suggested differentiating between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Norway, supported by the Netherlands, noted redundancy between two bullet points both addressing GHG removal techniques.
CANADA underscored the importance of developing realistic review guidelines and, with the US, called for a more streamlined approach.
Australia, Switzerland, the US and the EU proposed considering “creative ways” of ensuring that work progresses productively, including meetings of expert groups, which could focus on issues that require more substantive work.
Nauru, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for LDCs, BARBADOS, GRENADA, SWITZERLAND, the EU, the US, MEXICO, SINGAPORE, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and COSTA RICA urged the adoption of the agenda as proposed.
BRAZIL, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, explained that developed countries must reduce emissions, while developing countries take action to reduce emission growth, and clarified that the distinction also applied to MRV.
 SAUDI ARABIA stated that there was no need for a new regime and argued that Annex I countries were preoccupied with an economic agenda, citing the EU 92s bid to control the carbon market.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, suggested deleting the paragraph.
The Netherlands and Belgium stressed the need to continue deliberating throughout the next assessment cycle on the possibility of changing the structure of the Working Groups.
BOLIVIA, URUGUAY and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, supported this.
Concerning reference to the world 92s mega-deltas, Benin, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and others proposed, and WGII agreed, to mention Africa in text in addition to Asia.
BRAZIL highlighted problems with GWPs, and NEW ZEALAND said they would be open to considering other methods.
The US, with New Zealand, suggested the possibility for NGOs to submit information.
On differentiation, Argentina, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and CHINA suggested INDCs include differentiated information for Annex I, Annex II and non-Annex I parties.
CANADA and JAPAN called for a flexible legal instrument.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said loopholes must be closed on LULUCF accounting and carryover of surplus AAUs.
With Canada, Japan and the EU, she emphasized that adaptation should be country-driven and that priority should be given to the most vulnerable.
China, Uganda, Brazil, India and Argentina supported establishment of a contact group to discuss methodological issues and guidance of ICAO and IMO.
Nauru, for AOSIS, opposed a review of the ADP workplan that would allow for its curtailment in 2017.
To maximize effectiveness, Mexico, for EIG, called for taking advantage of synergies with other UN conventions to help to implement the Paris Agreement.
The G-77/CHINA noted it is an 93innovative solidarity fund, 94 the EU said it built 93new trust 94 among parties, JAPAN hoped the choice of institution will reflect the Fund 92s agreed principles and modalities, and TUVALU said the Fund will be 93a small lifeline to SIDS.
Uganda, Paraguay and the Solomon Islands emphasized that loss and damage must be an essential part of the decision and the future agreement.
Ethiopia, opposed by many countries, but supported by Uganda, proposed that this quota should apply to countries that had fewer than ten projects in the first commitment period.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, suggested it should be the role of SBSTA, while SAMOA, the G-77/CHINA, said it should be a function of the supervisory committee.
The Russian Federation and the Philippines noted the importance of including information on unusual climate conditions and of engaging country experts for this purpose.
On the form of the outcome, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, preferred a COP decision rather than SBI conclusions.
NIGERIA underscored the need to continue the Kyoto Protocol and NICARAGUA said this is essential to achieve balance.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for bold and effective action from the international community to address climate change.
On accounting interlinkages and Protocol Article 3.7 , the EU and the UK highlighted the potential problem of double-counting and the need for consistency.
Switzerland, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , outlined three deliverables for Doha: concluding the AWG-KP, closing the AWG-LCA, and progressing on the two streams of the ADP.
The Philippines and China noted that developing countries would need funding to attend.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, referred to the Kyoto Protocol as an important part of efforts to reduce emissions, offering rules and infrastructure that can be used towards a new framework.
Parties also agreed on compromise language on further steps, retaining the reference to a "frame" for defining these steps that was supported by the EU and SAMOA, and deleting the notion of "in-depth" information-sharing as an element of this frame, as requested by the US.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, and CANADA highlighted lack of information on certain gases.
The US identified the need to consider the spectrum of countries’ national circumstances and said the registry approach should be considered for both developed and developing countries, while Brazil said developed countries must take on commitments and stressed the need to consider comparability of their efforts.
 Pakistan, speaking for the G-77/China, emphasized the AWG’s focus in setting further Annex I commitments and indicating that these need to be based on sound science, highlighting the IPCC reports and the need for urgent and ambitious targets.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need to incorporate scientific information released since the IPCC AR4, which points to climate change effects occurring much faster than projected and greatly underestimated costs of inaction.
ETHIOPIA, opposed by many countries, but supported by UGANDA, proposed that this quota should apply to countries that had fewer than ten projects in the first commitment period.
On capacity building, NORWAY, with JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and others, underscored that it was a cross-cutting issue and should be integrated into relevant chapters.
Saudi Arabia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES , with JORDAN, called for reflecting CBDR and equity.
SAUDI ARABIA, with CHINA, INDIA, OMAN and ETHIOPIA, called for a focus on Annex B and Protocol Article 3.9 .
The UK proposed saying  93some developing countries, 94 with Sudan, South Africa and others preferring maintaining reference to specific regions.
SAMOA and INDIA suggested that some issues could be forwarded to the SBI, including promoting the creation of an enabling environment for adaptation and the use of research networks.
BRAZIL and NEW ZEALAND cautioned against moving text.
94 JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA defined it as a living document that would go through several drafts.
On the decision requesting the Secretariat, under the guidance of the Chair of the SBSTA and in collaboration with relevant international and intergovernmental organisations, to support future work on P&amp;Ms by organizing, inter alia, workshops and side events, the EU, supported by the US, CANADA and JAPAN, proposed removing reference to specific international organizations.
The US noted the relationship between risk reduction and adaptation, and proposed, with the EU, consolidating the section on risk.
SENEGAL, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, the PHILIPPINES and HONDURAS specifically supported the AOSIS draft protocol.
POLAND prefers a protocol, as explained by the EU and Russian Federation.
The US and the EU said it would be more useful to revise the paper only after all parties have provided their specific comments.
The US said annex-based differentiation is not a path to the new agreement and, with Japan, opposed “bifurcated language.”
Guatemala, for AILAC, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, SWITZERLAND, Angola, for the LDCs, LIECHTENSTEIN, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and TURKEY called for the inclusion of gender equality and intergenerational equity.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and SINGAPORE preferred specifying arrangements for individuals serving on constituted bodies and other entities established under the UNFCCC and not only under the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA, supported by JAPAN and the US, stressed that capacity building is a crosscutting issue that is a means and not an end in itself, and JAPAN said an independent section on capacity building was unnecessary.
The US, with the EU, said the aim of the consultative process should be "meaningful and effective action."
Japan stated its opposition to separating human-induced and natural effects, while Switzerland said the integrity of the Protocol depended on their separation.
 China, supported by Iran, Uganda and Kuwait, said paragraph 1, urging Parties to contribute to the process, should be deleted because it referred to an undefined process in paragraph 1.
China, Japan and others highlighted the need to simplify accreditation of Designated Operational Entities  and delegates agreed, inter alia, to request the Board to complete “as its highest priority” revision of the accreditation process for DOEs and develop, by COP/MOP 5, a policy framework for addressing non-compliance by DOEs.
CHINA, supported by INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA, said identifying modalities for communicating information on the provision of public financial resources to developing countries in accordance with Paris Agreement Article 9.5  is a “homeless issue” that is lacking progress, calling for allocating time and two co-facilitators for this issue.
FRANCE noted there is not yet a final decision from the EU and said the group will have to spend a week preparing for a ministerial segment
On the review, China and Iran supported anchoring existing arrangements in the 2015 agreement, including the international consultation and analysis.
Brazil, China, and Senegal opposed amending Annex A to include new gases.
The G-77/CHINA proposed text on the outcomes of the workshops on insurance and risk assessment and on related actions, which the EU and US opposed, stating that the reports were not available for consideration at SBI-18.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the EIG, cautioned parties “not to change the focus and character” of the contact group, called for focusing energies on discussions in the spin-off groups and said topics for discussion in the spin-off group should complement “the agreed outcome” under the AWG-LCA.
The NETHERLANDS noted some participants 92 view that it is important for all developing countries, including LDCs, to be producing their national communications, as the vulnerability assessment and adaptation sections will be of value to all developing countries in identifying adaptation options.
CHILE, also speaking for Peru, Colombia, Costa Rica, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic and Panama, called for negotiations to begin as soon as possible based on the Chair’s text, highlighting the importance of identifying points of common understanding.
SAMOA, speaking for AOSIS, said the stock taking exercise is set for SB-17.
Australia, supported by Norway, proposed integrating biennial reports and IAR into existing reporting to avoid duplication.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA questioned the need for extra informal consultations on the issue.
The US, with JAPAN, said natural effects cannot be factored out in a satisfactory manner, and said the effect of carbon fertilization is well under 10%.
The EIG and the African Group welcomed the report.
In the work agenda, China proposed moving up deadlines to allow more time for preparation and Malaysia stressed the need for exchange of views before developing modalities.
INDIA and CHINA stressed the need to address all four elements of the Bali Action Plan equally.
NORWAY, with SWITZERLAND, supported TEMs e2 80 99 focus on mitigation, including fossil fuel subsidy reform, and, with COLOMBIA, called for recognizing the work of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate.
Tuvalu, Brazil and others stressed these this should be considered by the LULUCF group.
The Maldives stated that his country was one of those most at risk and pleaded for “our developing country friends to keep the document alive.” Sweden, for the EU, expressed support for the Maldives, noting that the draft decision was a compromise.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for the Alliance of Small Island States , and Tuvalu emphasized the importance of maintaining the current base year to ensure comparability of commitments in the second commitment period.
Canada, with Australia, expressed interest in the South African proposal on the life-cycle of NAMAs.
The G-77/CHINA, ARGENTINA, and BRAZIL noted that the new UN General Assembly scale of assessment should not be applied automatically.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over proposals reaching beyond the AWG-KP’s legal mandate based on Protocol Article 3.9 .
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported continuing the consolidation exercise, while noting challenges in consolidation due to divergent views on implementation.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said pledges and actions from Copenhagen and Cancun should set the groundwork for future efforts.
Noting the recent submissions from the G-77/China and EIG on workstream 2, the US, the EU and AUSTRALIA called for time to fully discuss them.
Norway, the UK and Hungary requested preparation of a revised detailed timetable reflecting how all three SRs and AR6 fit together.
On paragraphs 7 and 8, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, the Umbrella Group, the EU, and the US opposed inviting submissions or technical papers.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, supported adoption of the SAR and noted the conclusion that SIDS are among the most vulnerable to climate change.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, and SAUDI ARABIA bracketed paragraph 1.
CHINA, supported by INDIA and IRAN, observed two tendencies: developed countries are only interested in transfer of technical information, while developing countries deem technology transfer on non-commercial and preferential terms most important; and some countries emphasize market mechanisms.
EGYPT, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the importance of the workshop’s scope and identified the possible need for another workshop on the means of implementation.
Noting the need for rules on markets and LULUCF, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for broad and effective participation of all parties under a single, new legally-binding agreement.
MALAYSIA, EGYPT and others expressed disappointment at the lack of progress on technology transfer.
He said the contact group would have a mandate to complete work on unresolved issues within a short deadline and that open-ended drafting groups would be convened, chaired by “people we know well and trust.” Sudan, for the G-77/China, requested clarity on the deadline.
TURKEY, on behalf of WEOG, said the group will maintain the current Vice Presidency of the SBI.
Japan noted a COP-7 decision  requesting the Secretariat to organize a workshop before COP/MOP-2 relating to reporting on minimizing impacts of response measures and, supported by the EU and Canada, said this addressed Saudi Arabia 92s concerns.
The Republic of Korea, China, Venezuela, Nicaragua, Saudi Arabia and India proposed deleting this panel, noting it was not relevant in this section.
The Philippines, the United Arab Emirates and others lamented lack of clarity on the means of implementation.
The Russian Federation, Tuvalu, Belize, Chile and Japan made proposals relating to the first six operational paragraphs of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decision text.
  The Eighth Meeting of the Leaders’ Representatives of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate took place in New York, US, from 20-21 September 2010, and was attended by officials from 17 major economies, as well as the UN, Barbados, Denmark, Egypt, Singapore and Spain.
The EU and other Parties preferred to refer to the entire decision, while Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, favored referring to sections of it, in particular to the adverse effects of the implementation of policies and measures.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, asked for deletion in the draft decision of the preambular paragraph that recognizes the implementation potential of existing financing sources such as the private financing advisory network, on the grounds that the project is “still in its infancy.” Other parties agreed to this in the spirit of compromise.
COLOMBIA, PARAGUAY, and CHILE said projects should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Reminding delegates that creating new institutions is not enough, Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: time-bound deliverables; for the ADP to be informed by progress under the Subsidiary Bodies ; and to build on progress made under the UNFCCC since 2005.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA opposed non-procedural paragraphs.
On  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, pointed to parallel views and a lack of common understanding of the term “country-driven.” The EU, Uganda, for the LDCs, and others stressed that a sense of urgency to undertake enhanced action on financing for mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer should be stated clearly, as well as the need to prioritize support for vulnerable developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, and a number of other developing countries repeated their proposal for two separate draft decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and one on Protocol Article 3.14.
On loss and damage, the G-77/CHINA, with VIET NAM and HAITI, emphasized the need for a distinct article on loss and damage.
On introducing multiplication and discount factors under the CDM, the EU and CANADA expressed an interest in discount factors.
BRAZIL emphasized the importance of advancing all aspects of the Durban outcome and highlighted the main focus of the Durban Platform to create a new legal instrument under the UNFCCC as “an important opportunity that must not be lost.” SOUTH AFRICA underscored the importance of trust and mutual reassurance, upon which the Durban Package was based, which included an agreement to look at the level of ambition.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed support for the President using appropriate approaches to find a solution that is acceptable to all parties and noted that the time factor “should not be used as a pretext to digress from the objective of achieving consensus.”
The US, supported by SAMOA, suggested that the Secretariat develop terms of reference  for future workshops in accordance with decision 13/CP.7 , which refers to adverse effects.
 Italy, supported by Poland, said he was impressed by the Chair\'s suggestion, and that Article 8.3 of the Convention says COP-1 should designate a Permanent Secretariat.
CANADA stressed capacity building and INDONESIA concrete and prompt action, and positive incentives.
The United Arab Emirates and Argentina stressed the importance of enhancing existing arrangements.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, said the GCF is a crucial element of the solution.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CANADA, bracketed reference to the CDM Reference Manual.
Nepal, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , called for ADP 2-6 to organize elements of a post-2015 agreement and advance discussions on INDCs, including their legal form and treatment.
Uganda encouraged the authors to make use of “grey” literature in developing countries in preparing the SR. Belgium called for the inclusion of more social scientists, such as property rights specialists, economists, and experts capable of estimating the havoc that disasters will wreak on social structures.
JAPAN, the EU, CHINA, US, AUSTRALIA and others said discussions should be carried out under the AWG-LCA to avoid duplication of work, while NEW ZEALAND and SOUTH AFRICA said work should also continue under SBSTA.
COLOMBIA and the LDCs supported ex ante assessment and ex post review of climate finance.
On long-term cooperation, Slovenia, for the EU, said parties should agree on conclusions at this session.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, welcomed: the progress on national adaptation plans for LDCs and called for launching the plans as soon as possible after COP 17; the draft conclusions on matters related to LDCs, particularly on the 2011 LEG work programme; the guidance to the GEF to provide support to developing countries in preparing TNAs; and, with the Solomon Islands, the forthcoming workshop on Convention Article 6.
 , Bolivia requested inserting reference to e2 80 9cissues of equity, justice and fairness, e2 80 9d while Saudi Arabia noted the need to also refer to cultural values, among others.
Supported by the EU, New Zealand and others, Uruguay proposed that the SBSTA consider the agriculture sector in 2010.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by EGYPT, opposed referring to parliamentarians and legislators, saying that their participation and role should be considered by each party according to its national circumstances and legal framework.
AOSIS, with Colombia, said Protocol Article 6  and 12  should be given equal treatment in the context of share of proceeds for adaptation, as this would ensure real additional funds for adaptation, sufficient funds for administrative costs, and no additional transaction costs for the CDM.
On  , Australia, supported by Japan, Canada, the US and the EU, underscored the importance of institutional arrangements and MRV.
China drew attention to different interpretations of “country-driven.” Canada said country-driven adaptation efforts speak to the importance of national governments in identifying and communicating their priorities as well as implementing actions.
Opposed by Saudi Arabia, they also emphasized the importance of a “shared vision.” China appreciated the voluntary targets by the EU and Norway and urged other Annex I parties to come up with similar figures.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and SENEGAL, expressed concern over text requiring Parties to address a number of issues when analyzing environmental impacts.
The EU, supported by ARGENTINA and BOLIVIA, said information provided by Parties for the inventory review could be used by the experts in preparing their countries 92 inventories, but should not be disclosed to a third party.
On Tuesday, 10 November, draft work programmes were submitted by AUSTRALIA , JAPAN, SWITZERLAND and the Co-Chairs.
The LDCs and SAUDI ARABIA opposed this proposal.
Noting positive GEF reforms resulting in increased access to funds for LDCs, the GAMBIA expressed hope that the fifth replenishment would enhance funding under the LDC Fund.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that some areas of the Bali Action Plan have not been thoroughly addressed and that the mechanisms established for adaptation and other issues are not yet operational.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said the current stage of negotiations should be concluded at COP-7, and stressed the need for entry into force of the Protocol.
 The US and ITALY expressed their concern about adding the Chinese proposal.
South Africa supported the African Group’s rejection of a weak outcome in Copenhagen in the nature of a political declaration, and called for a legally-binding two-track outcome.
Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Burundi and Senegal called for a governing body to coordinate capacity-building efforts, with Senegal emphasizing MRV of support to developing countries.
TANZANIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, recalled that negotiations should not diverge from the COP mandate.
On paragraphs 7 and 8, BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY, the UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, and the US opposed inviting submissions or technical papers.
Mali, with Saint Lucia and South Africa, supported the proposal and, with Marshall Islands, urged highlighting regional issues.
During the discussion, many delegates, including Swaziland, Kenya, South Africa, the Bahamas, Germany, Canada, Ethiopia, Australia, Mauritius, Bolivia, and South Sudan, supported the organization of pre-plenary briefing sessions.
 The US, supported by the EU, the Netherlands, Japan, Canada and Australia, said it was concerned about the form and nature of the simplification, who would simplify the guidelines, how transparency would be maintained, and what revising the guidelines might cost.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the Protocol is the only instrument in place to harmonize efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and stressed that the AWG-KP should be “steered away from” the AWG-LCA, to maintain the distinction between the two tracks.
CANADA and the US noted that Protocol Article 8  provides a built-in review.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for operationalizing the WIM so that it fulfils its original vision and delivers for people on the ground.
Andreas Calgren, Minister for the Environment of Sweden, for the EU, urged parties not to leave Copenhagen without a legally-binding, ambitious, global and comprehensive agreement for all countries, including actions from developed countries and emerging economies.
The UK noted that domestic actions must be the main means of achieving reductions and said the EU would propose to limit the amount of emissions reductions that can be achieved through flexible mechanisms.
The UK suggested including infrastructure lock-in as a common element, the Netherlands supported adding the social aspects of implementation, and Saudi Arabia proposed adding mitigation co-benefits to the mitigation-adaptation interactions bullet.
Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China , expressed concern at the lack of progress under the AWG-KP, emphasizing that political will is key for establishing a second commitment period.
Australia expressed disappointment that annual cash contributions from the WMO and UN Environment  had not always materialized, and, with China, Morocco and others, called for engaging the IPCC’s two parent organizations in this regard.
JAMAICA, supported by SUDAN, the PHILIPPINES, VANUATU and ZAMBIA, called on the CMP to facilitate mobilization of additional funds during CMP 8.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed his confidence that parties would “deliver the milestone of a legally-binding agreement by 2015.”
Stressing the need for improved outreach in his region, Iran, supported by Afghanistan, proposed that the IPCC hold workshops focusing on Asia and the Middle East.
KENYA, for the G-77/CHINA, said the geographic distribution of projects should be improved, particularly for Africa.
China, with support from Brazil, India, Bolivia and Saudi Arabia, requested that the AWG-KP’s report reflect that the AWG-KP’s mandate is to consider Annex I parties’ further commitments in accordance with Protocol Article 3.9 and that the work programme of the group includes legal matters arising from the AWG-KP’s mandate.
PAKISTAN, ECUADOR and others stressed that progress under the Convention is linked to progress under the Protocol.
On long-term and global aspects, Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested a regular review of the elements under the section on the basis of science.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reminded delegates that the phrase was "AIJ" and not "JI" and that there substantive differences between the two.
NEW ZEALAND said it was the first country belonging to the Umbrella Group that had announced its firm intention to ratify in 2002.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that progress in the negotiations should be made based on COP 15 outcomes, including the Copenhagen Accord, and expressed conviction that agreement can be reached at COP 16.
The UK urged acceptance of previously agreed text, and Saudi Arabia agreed to maintain the text as presented.
On scope, Botswana, for the African Group, supported by China and Brazil, observed that the Durban decision defines the scope and modalities of the Review, and that the scope includes not just the temperature goal but also the adequacy of means of implementation for developing countries.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented insufficient time to complete consideration of some issues, while welcoming progress on others.
Regarding economic diversification, SAUDI ARABIA highlighted links to risk management and AOSIS supported identification of options to enhance capacity for diversification.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, reaffirmed future work should be balanced and underlined that the guiding questions for submissions do not limit the ability of parties to submit views on other issues.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and BURKINA FASO, said this item could lead to renewed confrontation.
China stressed the negotiations as a two-track process, saying “destroying one track puts the whole vehicle in danger.” The Russian Federation called for “modernization” of the Protocol and examination of mechanisms that could be successfully applied in a new agreement.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, regretted the limited availability of insurance tools.
CANADA called for analysis to find the optimal solution, and with NORWAY, the LDCs and SWITZERLAND, suggested submissions from parties and/or a technical paper from the Secretariat.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, emphasized, inter alia: the urgent need for pre-2020 action; adaptation as a priority for developing countries; and enhanced participation of indigenous peoples in the UNFCCC process.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, opposed.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, concurred.
On tools to assist developing countries in assessing and dealing with potential consequences, NEW ZEALAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, noted that the tools mentioned in the paragraph appeared to be a random selection of available tools.
CUBA, on behalf of several countries, expressed concern with respect to unilateral measures in relation to aviation emissions, such as under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
On the latter, India recalled that only one afforestation/reforestation project activity in China had been approved to date under the CDM and noted difficulties in developing such project activities given high transaction costs.
Cautioning against bias towards mitigation actions, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested adding text on MRV of Annex I parties’ support to developing countries for the achievement of the latter’s INDCs.
France, for the EU, explained its proposed framework for adaptation, which promotes financial resources and investment flows and builds partnerships between developed and developing countries.
Mexico, for the EIG, underscored the Dialogue’s message of working as a community.
AOSIS, with Algeria, urged other Annex I parties to follow Norway’s lead in making pledges that are closer to what the science requires, and Thailand called for increased levels of ambition.
Describing the Paris Agreement as an enhanced regime guided by equity and common but differentiated responsibilities , Gabon, for the African Group, outlined as core elements of the outcome, inter alia, finance, including the full operationalization of Paris Agreement Article 9.5 .
The G-77/China, AOSIS, Singapore, China, India and Venezuela identified the balanced operationalization of the Cancun Agreements as the second key outcome from Durban.
Targets pledged by Annex I countries – including recent announcements by Russia and New Zealand – tend to use different base years and are also based on different assumptions about sinks and market mechanisms, making them difficult to compare.
CROATIA expressed preference for addressing the issue not through the Enforcement Branch but through a COP/MOP decision indicating that decision 7/CP.12 applies fully to Croatia’s Kyoto target.
The US asked the G-77/CHINA if the intention was to confine discussion of the second review to that agenda item at COP-4; and about the timing of future reviews.
AUSTRALIA, the US, BHUTAN and BOLIVIA highlighted the importance of AIJ, while DENMARK said AIJ must not be a loophole for subsidizing energy exports to developing countries nor a “sorry excuse” for postponing actions needed in developed countries.
SAUDI ARABIA suggested bracketing e2 80 9ca quantifiable mitigation component e2 80 9d and, with TURKEY, opposed reference to e2 80 9cevolving e2 80 9d national circumstances.
  The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a session to discuss ambition, noting that the numbers on the table are “very low.” Chair Diouf stated that this proposal could be discussed in the contact group on item 3 .
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized, inter alia, including commitments on the scale of finance.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others called for a coherent and consistent outcome from the two AWGs.
India, supported by Brazil, and opposed by the US, suggested compiling parties e2 80 99 submissions as the basis for a draft decision.
Some developing countries, including Saudi Arabia and Bolivia, stressed that their participation in these sessions should not be interpreted as accepting a possible gap.
94 On the list of related examples, Argentina proposed replacing 93droughts 94 with  93hydrometeorological 94 and Switzerland suggested reference to the framework agreed to at the World Conference on Disaster Reduction in 2005.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported organizing ministerial roundtables in Doha.
Jamaica noted that useful information is included in national communications and, supported by Kenya, outlined other existing initiatives, including stakeholder consultations.
CANADA and the US said the G-77/China proposal changes the scope of the process, by referring to the entire Convention rather than the Parties in question.
Many countries, including the EU, Australia, Barbados, Japan, Costa Rica and the Russian Federation, expressed support for the Accord.
 : Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the work of the Technology Executive Committee  and urged operationalizing the work programme and holding a forum on response measures.
Kuwait, supported by Iran, Saudi Arabia, Libya and Nigeria, announced that it would not adopt the Rules of Procedure until all rules are agreed upon.
Many countries, including CANADA, VENEZUELA, AUSTRALIA, IRAN and SLOVENIA, supported an advisory approach.
Japan, supported by Turkey, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Croatia, Belarus, Australia and others, expressed concern over the scope of the AWG-KP’s work and urged close cooperation between the two AWGs.
Parties eventually agreed to “take into account” the principles in place of agreeing that the principles continue to apply, although the G-77/China, Switzerland and others preferred the alternative.
India and Thailand opposed negotiations that would begin to place new commitments on non- Annex I Parties and said the AOSIS protocol is the first step toward requiring Annex I countries to continue to meet their obligations.
On a question by CHINA on measures being undertaken by Austria in the transport sector, Austria noted its legislation on vehicle fuel consumption and ongoing discussions on policies at the EU level.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said the needs assessment should be used to "facilitate efforts" by Annex II Parties, while the G-77/CHINA preferred stating that they should "facilitate transfer of and access to ESTs."
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , expressed willingness to work in a focused manner towards the adoption of a legally-binding instrument in 2015.
The US, with Australia, said each country should maintain a schedule of actions they intend to take to meet their commitments, with periodic reporting on implementation and revisions to enhance commitments.
India, with Guyana, Saudi Arabia and China, emphasized the importance of identifying activities and actions that would qualify for REDD-plus before addressing principles.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over proposals reaching beyond the AWG-KP’s legal mandate based on Protocol Article 3.9  and stressed the importance of agreeing on new Annex I targets by the end of 2009.
The G-77/China reiterated their preference for two draft decisions, with the EU, Australia, Japan, the US and Switzerland expressing preference for a single decision.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, said this would politicize the process and that the legal appreciation should be left to the compliance body.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, with BRAZIL and CHINA, stated that greater ambition from Annex I parties will drive demand for the mechanisms.
With JAPAN and CANADA, NEW ZEALAND supported a discussion on this item.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the Doha meeting must result in agreement on: a comparability and compliance framework for developed countries’ mitigation efforts; and clear mid-term targets for finance.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the need to enhance the frequency and content of national communications, and expressed disappointment with the lack of conclusion on the fourth review of the financial mechanism.
SAMOA and the US said the enforcement branch could address specific provisions and the facilitation branch could have broad jurisdiction.
ETHIOPIA emphasized e2 80 9cglaring e2 80 9d differences in needs for capacity building in developing countries and, opposed by the US, called for commitments on capacity building.
He noted efforts by the EU, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand and others to consolidate their proposals on new mechanisms and provide streamlined text.
CANADA and the US stressed that INDCs relate to mitigation.
MEXICO noted that G-77/China e2 80 99s consolidation of options may have taken some options e2 80 9coff the table, e2 80 9d and called for progressing on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text.
DENMARK, supported by the UK and the NETHERLANDS, suggested emphasizing caprock as a necessary trapping mechanism.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, the EIG and the EU proposed that parties: “unpack issues”; reorganize text; and explain their proposals.
Canada said the provisional agenda correctly referred to a proposal and, supported by several Annex I Parties and Uzbekistan, but opposed by Saudi Arabia, stressed retaining the issue as worded in the provisional agenda.
On response measures, the LDCs, Venezuela, Argentina, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates, opposed by New Zealand, Japan and Canada, variously supported a mechanism, institution or permanent forum.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported by the EU and Japan, opposed adjourning the meeting.
The EU, supported by Germany, Switzerland and Canada, proposed a working group to address budgetary matters and asked that it review both the 1995 and 1996/97 budgets.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, urged implementation of national adaptation plans of action .
AOSIS, Jamaica, Peru and Brazil, opposed by Norway and Saudi Arabia, supported retaining the text in the preamble.
A number of parties, including AOSIS, the EU, Mexico, New Zealand, Colombia, Japan and the US, stressed the need to consider loss and damage and response measures under separate agenda items.
The EIG, with GEORGIA, said not all items needed submissions, and suggested item 6  could have submissions and a technical paper.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted work on ocean sequestration under the IMO, while NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, the EU and AOSIS raised concerns over the inclusion of ocean sequestration under the CDM.
On the Establishment, Structure and Functions of the compliance system, the US and Australia, opposed by New Zealand and the EU, said the text should emphasize the two-branch structure of the compliance body.
Canada noted that the topic had not received the same attention in the scoping meeting as the other topics, and with Australia, the Netherlands, the US and others, suggested drawing out information that is relevant for UNFCCC Article 2 from other topics and including it in boxes, possibly throughout the text, instead of having it as a separate topic.
A bold header, which stated with  93very high confidence 94 that many natural systems, in all continents and some oceans, are being affected by regional climate changes, particularly temperature increases, was discussed in plenary and in a contact group co-chaired by Belgium and Sudan.
It featured presentations by: Germany; the European Commission; the GCOS; the Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research; and the Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre.
 Portugal, for the EU, stated that the EU is fully convinced of the urgency of enhancing international cooperation in order to rapidly accelerate the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies.
On Thursday evening, following the reports of the co-facilitators, the G-77/China and Venezuela voiced strong objection that the stocktaking session had started without the presence of the G-77/China, with the group wondering whether “their views still matter.” Parties agreed to reconvene a stocktaking session to consider the way forward on Friday morning.
He noted that the African Group had withdrawn their candidate and only the candidate nominated by GRULAC remained.
 Italy and Poland supported Bonn.
CHINA noted the meaningful participation of the G-77/CHINA in the negotiation process.
SWITZERLAND and Jamaica, for AOSIS, and INDIA cautioned against additional reporting burdens.
INDIA, BRAZIL and others stressed that NAMAs are separate from the CDM.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the panels should have different structures, with TAP-T as the smaller, ad hoc body and TAP-M as the larger body that draws from other fora.
On a paragraph noting that funding decisions by the GCF projects will contribute to “low-emission and climate-resilient” development, ARGENTINA, opposed by the EU, suggested referencing “sustainable” development instead.
Maldives, for AOSIS, pointed to the IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 c2 b0C, underscoring the urgency of restoring a spirit of multilateral cooperation not impeded by narrow national interests.
CHINA, the EU, ZIMBABWE, FRANCE and SWITZERLAND said the main objective should be to provide assistance to individual Parties rather than to the COP.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted a recent and significant shift in action on climate change and bigger commitments in capitals around the world, and said “history will not judge us from what we did today, but what we do from this day forward.”
Referring to SBI agenda items 5  and 6 , Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested they be considered back-to-back and be led by the same co-facilitators, adding “we are working towards one NDC registry, rather than two.”
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS expressed disappointment at recent emissions data revealing that many Annex I Parties are significantly exceeding 1990 levels.
Sweden, for the EU, called for a Copenhagen agreement to be inclusive, encompass non-Annex I parties, cover all building blocks and be based on the principles of the Convention.
Emphasizing that the final report of the structured expert dialogue  “sends a very clear signal that the 2 c2 b0C limit is inadequate,” Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that a “handful of countries” did not engage to reach a substantive outcome on the review.
Argentina, Burkina Faso and New Zealand noted that these ideas were useful.
CANADA and others supported Australia’s proposal to identify principles.
South Africa, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, suggested forwarding issues related to mitigation by developed countries, market approaches and finance to the political level.
Botswana, on behalf of the G-77/China, proposed an amendment to the conclusions to reaffirm the need for a work programme, taking into account national circumstances and the availability of resources.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed moving forward into the implementation phase of the new MRV framework.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL urged keeping this as a separate decision, noting that it included additional proposals.
Trinidad and Tobago called for a reference to the long-term global goal to limit temperature to below 2     c2 b0     or 1.5     c2 b0C above pre-industrial levels.
The US highlighted the need for a country-driven focus, and CHINA called for technical and financial assistance.
TUVALU and NEW ZEALAND noted the need to define the role of developed and developing country parties in the safeguards chapeau.
China, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA , called for starting textual negotiations as soon as possible and reflecting differentiation, the nationally-determined nature of contributions and flexibility for developing countries.
UKRAINE and NORWAY proposed that COP 13 should create a negotiation process to be finalized at COP 15.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for a forward-looking dimension to enable maximizing ambition.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized the importance of adaptation to the impacts of response measures, and, with JAPAN and others, stressed the value of exchanging information.
The US, MALAYSIA and SWITZERLAND said the Special Report could provide guidance in continuing the work on implementing FCCC Article 4.5 .
China and India called for deleting text suggesting that “parties mobilize and provide financial resources in a manner which is capable of adapting dynamically to changing realities and future developments and needs.”
The EU supported TUVALU and Costa Rica, for AILAC, on recognizing the draft negotiating text more formally.
Chile, for AILAC, supported by the US, stated that, while the facilitated groups may advance at different speeds, they shared the common purpose of making the Geneva text more workable.
The US, with CANADA, proposed examining ef bf bdwin-win ef bf bd opportunities.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small Island States , and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported option 3.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said a balanced outcome should support developing countries’ adaptation efforts, encourage voluntary participation in international efforts to cut emissions and incorporate a mechanism for implementing financing and technology measures in developing countries.
The G-77/China, supported by AOSIS, called for a better reflection of enhancing the Convention’s implementation and said that the scope was too prescriptive.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by BHUTAN, the US and NORWAY, opposed by BRAZIL, suggested the Secretariat could prepare a paper as input to the workshop.
AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA emphasized the need for the Special Climate Change Fund to support adaptation activities.
With SWITZERLAND and HUNGARY, she emphasized the need for increased domestic action and called for continuation of AIJ and a smooth transition in the future to the clean development mechanism  and joint implementation .
Jordan, with China and India, opposed any ex ante review processes.
JAPAN, the EU and other developed countries opposed a spin-off group on technology.
Noting the importance of pre-2020 ambition and readiness to engage in discussions, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , supported by GEORGIA, supported the President’s proposed treatment of the two proposed items.
SENEGAL, supported by CHILE, said that modalities for small-scale CDM projects should be developed.
NAMIBIA said the SCCF must be operationalized to justify continued expenditures on UNFCCC-related work to constituencies of LDCs.
On the IPCC report, BOLIVIA noted the absence of concrete definitions of terms such as "forests," which were relevant to other Protocol Articles and, opposed by POLAND, proposed developing one universal definition.
On countries that would be most severely impacted by potential negative consequences, Saudi Arabia, Colombia, Kuwait, Nigeria and others preferred referring to countries identified in Convention Articles 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, while the EU, Japan and AOSIS preferred referring to the poorest and most vulnerable developing country parties.
CHINA, with the US, noted COP decisions urging Annex II Parties to include measures taken for technology transfer.
South Africa, for the African Group, explained that the TEC would guide implementation of technology transfer and have an advisory role for the TCN.
SAUDI ARABIA noted the efforts made by the G-77/China and stressed that other issues must be considered.
In the context of private sector funding, INDIA and CHINA drew attention to double counting arising from emission reductions achieved through offset mechanisms.
Many parties stressed the usefulness of the intersessional workshops, while China and South Africa expressed concern about the recent increase in greenhouse gas emissions by developed countries.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted the AOSIS Summit on 21 September in New York, where the heads of state had agreed on a “bold declaration to work with urgency and purpose” and stressed that “comfort and political accommodation should not drive the major players.” On financing, he said no proposals approached the scale of resources needed for adaptation, especially for small island developing states  and LDCs, and stressed that financing should not be held hostage to progress in other areas.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for the full and fair implementation of the Durban package and the successful closure of the AWG-LCA upon reaching an agreed outcome pursuant to the BAP.
Brazil opposed the draft decision as amended by Canada and called for consideration of WGI Co-Chair Stocker’s proposal, which: eliminated the focus only on the SPM; and called for seeking advice from various specialists to enhance the readability of IPCC products.
Supported by BOLIVIA, he opposed the Republic of Korea’s proposal to designate the Green Climate Fund  as the “main” operating entity of the agreement, noting that it would re-open the GCF’s governing instrument.
Costa Rica, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, highlighted the critical role of forests and the need for draft decisions on MRV for REDD+.
The AFRICAN GROUP, AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA called for a coherent financial architecture under the COP.
CHILE, also speaking for Colombia and Costa Rica, supported a technical review of national communications, with a greater focus on GHG inventories, as well as a procedure for recording NAMAs and their effect on countries’ emissions.
On Rules of Procedure for the Compliance Institution, the US, with AUSTRALIA, the EU and CANADA, suggested focusing on the elements needing agreement at COP-6, such as the decision-making rule.
  Saudi Arabia, for the ASIA-PACIFIC REGION, said Fiji offered to preside over COP 23, to be held at UNFCCC headquarters in Bonn, noting the group’s final decision was pending.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, supported the Philippines and added that this should not be reopened for discussion by the SBSTA.
France, supported by the US, suggested deleting this sub-paragraph, on assistance for research and development, stating that the entity should fund specific projects relevant to national programmes, not new or existing institutions.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed including reference to both the updating and implementation of NAPAs.
The African Group, the G-77/China, the Arab Group and the Like Minded Developing Countries  supported starting work on the draft decision.
Capacity Building: The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICAN GROUP and others said capacity building is necessary to ensure meaningful participation from developing countries.
UKRAINE raised concerns that the Russian Federation included data on the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in its communication, and requested the UNFCCC not to consider this data.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for agreement on a shared vision to preserve islands and their people as a priority, taking into consideration their low adaptive capacity.
On Wednesday, 9 November, Bolivia and Ecuador requested that the COP consider Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 136  and begin work.
Regarding a bullet on impacts and risks from large-scale land-based mitigation, Mexico, supported by Saudi Arabia, asked to include reference to ocean-based mitigation.
The US, EU, Australia and Russian Federation suggested deciding on the exact date for submitting the sixth national communication at a later stage, pending the outcome of AWG-LCA discussions.
 Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to make the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage functional and establish a mechanism to address the impacts of response measures.
India and China called for focusing on the duration of the agreement first.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified the need for capacity building at the regional and national levels.
BRAZIL, the EU, the LDCs, NORWAY, ARGENTINA, INDONESIA, MALAYSIA, ECUADOR and COLOMBIA called for the inclusion of a temperature goal.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of including non-party stakeholders in the Dialogue and looked forward to creating inclusive partnerships.
Japan, the US, Australia, New Zealand and the Russian Federation stressed operationalization of the Cancun Agreements as the basis for a robust outcome in Durban, and highlighted the importance of a framework for MRV, including ICA and IAR, and underscored the need for action by all major emitters.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, JAPAN preferred removing reference to "further" financial and technical support for enhancing national capacities.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Chile, Switzerland, the US, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and New Zealand supported using the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decision as the basis for negotiations.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, proposed that paragraphs on sources and principles of funding be discussed in the contact group on finance.
PERU, opposed by BRAZIL, suggested linking activities under Article 6 on climate change with similar activities on local pollution problems.
China, Brazil and South Africa stressed that further work is needed on the issue of MRV of support to developing countries.
UGANDA, supported by AUSTRALIA, preferred discussing activities to be financed before the necessary institutional arrangements.
Libya stressed life expectancy and Mali meningitis, with a Lead Author explaining that the evidence is either indirect or insufficient for inclusion in the report.
A number of Parties, including the G-77/CHINA, EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, US and JAPAN, said the text was a good basis for their work, and stressed the need for a balanced approach.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , underscored the need to maintain the substance and balance of the Paris outcome.
Newspaper accounts reported that European ministers, when signing the Protocol, expressed strong concern that the US, Japan and Russia were violating the spirit of the agreement by pursuing trading rather than domestic reductions.
Colombia, supported by the Marshall Islands, proposed finding a middle ground by: clarifying pre-conditions; identifying rules that are required and those that have been implemented; and assessing impacts of applying different rules.
 Delegates proposed various alternatives for the headline statement to accommodate a request from Saudi Arabia, supported by Brazil, Egypt, and India, for language indicating that the observed increase in global mean surface temperature  is the result of a long-term trend since pre-industrial times.
The EU and the LDCs, suggested starting work with Agenda Items 3 to 7 .
Belgium, for the EU, said the Cancun outcome should preserve the Kyoto Protocol architecture and confirm the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol institutions, but noted that progress under the AWG-KP alone would be insufficient.
On the review of the scientific and methodological aspects of the Brazilian proposal, the UK outlined the background and outcomes of the third expert meeting, held in Berlin, Germany, in September 2003.
The US, opposed by Brazil, noted the possibility of convening a “friends of the chair” group while continuing with drafting.
 INDIA underscored the need to identify sources within and outside the UNFCCC and called for reviewing the TOR given to the “financial bodies.” MAURITANIA said the allocation of financial resources should be based on criteria of justice and fairness.
CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA and TURKEY, noted that the text was a good starting point and reflected a balanced view.
Noting differences in capacities and capabilities, China, for the LMDCs, opposed by the US, called for differentiation between developed and developing countries.
Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for the IAR and ICA to provide lessons for the Paris Agreement’s transparency framework and for resolving outstanding issues on the budget.
 Subsequent to INC-10, Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States , submitted a draft protocol to the Interim Secretariat.
AUSTRALIA said that its technology transfer efforts coincide with needs outlined by CHINA: environmentally sound, appropriate for users, driven by recipient countries, and involving hard and soft technology.
Saudi Arabia asked for specific inclusion of the position of the G-77 and China for consideration with A/AC.237/Misc.41.
New Zealand and the Netherlands emphasized that the topic headings reflected agreed wording for chapter titles, while the bullet points under each heading were only meant as guidelines for authors, and asked that a sentence to that effect be included in the proposal.
AWG-LCA Chair Tayeb, supported by ALGERIA, the PHILIPPINES, INDONESIA, SAUDI ARABIA, VENEZUELA and EGYPT, proposed continuing discussions in an informal group and invited parties to address issues in a more focused manner during the next meeting.
Canada said the budget figures Uruguay mentioned had not been distributed, but should be as soon as possible.
An author agreed with France and Grenada that following different decarbonization pathways alters possibilities for non-CO2 mitigation.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, stated his expectation that Co-Facilitators would publish new iterations of informal notes on all items by the end of SB 48, and suggested that all items be suspended, allowing work to be continued without the need to discuss the agenda at the next session.
Parties also considered five submissions from parties on the Standing Committee from the Group of 77/China, the African Group, some members of the Umbrella Group, the EU, Turkey and India.
China, the US and Trinidad and Tobago supported the Chair\'s suggestion to move the highlights to the report.
GRENADA and JAPAN expressed support for using the text as a starting point.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND said modalities of the global stocktake may differ for adaptation, mitigation and MOI.
Argentina stressed that future discussions on this matter should include the need to have comparable methodologies for measuring greenhouse gas emission projections, and Saudi Arabia said the impacts of Annex I P&amp;Ms on developing countries dependent on fossil fuel exports also need to be addressed.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, opposed the introduction of new text by the Co-Chairs, stating that the text had already been gaveled during informal consultations last night.
Japan, Australia, Canada, the US and EU supported one contact group.
Venezuela called for including indigenous and cultural aspects and Austria stressed that uncertainty should be dealt with in an as consistent a manner as possible across all WGs.
Others, such as South Africa, Brazil, China and some other developing countries said such discussions could only proceed after Annex I parties undertake legally-binding QELROs.
Both the G-77/China and the EU submitted proposals for a draft COP decision.
Brazil, supported by China, Papua New Guinea and Paraguay, highlighted the three-phased approach, and suggested that the text should avoid using terminology that links REDD to the flexibility mechanisms.
  As the COP Presidency, MEXICO reported on activities to facilitate further negotiations, including: a ministerial meeting in March on implementing the Cancun Agreements; informal meetings with observer groups; the first meeting of the Transitional Committee for the Design of the Green Climate Fund in April; and a Ministerial dialogue on adaptation, co-hosted with South Africa, in May.
Australia, with the US, Canada and the EU, and opposed by the G-77/China and AOSIS, supported addressing the issue of 93factoring out 94 direct human-induced effects from the indirect and natural effects of LULUCF activities.
On a new paragraph noting the need for a more coordinated research approach to address cross-cutting issues, INDIA, MALAYSIA and CHINA, opposed by the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, proposed deleting reference to the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China submitted a set of amendments to the Chair\'s draft conclusions.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, said one of the key benchmarks for a shared vision should be that it minimizes the vulnerability of developing countries, LDCs and SIDS.
COLOMBIA and BRAZIL emphasized the need for a country-driven approach.
The US asked about the financial magnitude of the proposed MTAF, and CHINA replied that funding could be a percentage, such as 1%, of developed country investment in research and development, revenue from energy and environment taxes, and the auction of carbon credits.
The US, supported by NEW ZEALAND, said that the term “total emissions” does not fully encompass the meaning of the word “budget,” and noted the need to further reflect on the meaning of the term where it appeared in other parts of the text.
Canada, with Tuvalu and Japan, said the Declaration was a disappointment as it failed to respond to the TAR and did not provide a long-term collective plan.
On the issue of supplementarity, JAPAN and the US urged against renegotiating the Protocol.
The US and CANADA stated their support of Ukraine’s sovereignty.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that any support coming from developing country parties should not interfere with the nature, scope or substance of developing parties’ INDCs.
On Monday, 20 November, delegates in the COP-6 Plenary heard statements by Wim Kok, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, and Jacques Chirac, President of France.
Australia, supported by Norway, called for integrating gender recommendations in the seventh assessment report .
Japan, Australia and the Russian Federation, opposed by the US, the EU and Canada, supported adoption by a decision.
Canada expressed confidence that these concerns could be met and, with Japan, stressed inclusion of Article 3.4 activities in the first commitment period as a condition for ratification of the Protocol.
Bolivia, for ALBA, underlined the need for consideration of all parts of Article 6  including non-market mechanisms.
A bracketed sentence was added, based on proposals from CANADA and AUSTRALIA, stating that in the interim Parties may wish to consider relevant issues, particularly 3.4.
The G-77/CHINA, EU, and UMBRELLA GROUP opposed extending the meeting beyond two weeks, although the G-77/CHINA added that it might consider a one-day extension.
NORWAY, supported by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, called for a single objective relating to all greenhouse gases through the use of a “basket” approach containing as many greenhouse gases as possible.
The US, Austria, and others, however, cautioned against the risks of exposing the IPCC expert meetings in the media.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a series of in-session TEMs in 2015-2017, AOSIS, supported by many parties, called for the process to be organized “at least twice a year during the period 2015-2020 in areas with high mitigation potential.” Brazil suggested adding “options and instruments” to “areas.”
South Africa, supported by India and Indonesia, called for the provision of resources to facilitate the involvement of scientists and experts from developing countries in scoping events.
BRAZIL and INDIA called for careful consideration of assumptions underlying scientific arguments.
INDIA, supported by CHINA, explained that MRV in developing countries only applies to mitigation actions that are internationally enabled.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BRAZIL, SUDAN, INDIA and CHINA, emphasized that many of the presentations at the workshop were outside of the mandate of the AWG-KP, in particular those covering non-Annex I parties.
CHINA, with BRAZIL, opposed subtraction of excess tonnes from a Party 92s assigned amount for the subsequent commitment period.
Changing its earlier support, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, MICRONESIA, US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA, proposed adding bracketed text on reporting on actions to address the adverse affects of response measures.
e2 80 9d Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , expressed support for working on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decisions and non-paper.
The US, opposed by BRAZIL, noted the possibility of convening a “friends of the chair” group while continuing with drafting.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, preferring only procedural conclusions, opposed.
The EU, CHINA, BELIZE, PANAMA and others proposed various workshops, while OMAN noted time constraints and said workshops should not replace negotiations.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to accelerate the negotiating process.
The EU, supported by Germany, Switzerland and Canada, proposed a working group to address budgetary matters and asked that it review the 1995 and 1996/97 budgets.
China, for the G-77/China, expressed “deep concern” that emissions have increased in many developed countries during the period.
Cyprus, for the EU, highlighted: the EU’s immediate implementation of their second commitment period commitments regardless of other parties’ ratification timing; the need for broad participation and flexibility based on environmental integrity; and the need to resolve the issue of carry-over of surplus AAUs.
Echoing the same concerns, Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, said the group reserves its right to bring up these issues at the next SBI.
CHINA and UKRAINE, opposed by some parties, introduced amendments highlighting attention to developing countries and economies in transition respectively.
On emissions from international transportation, PAKISTAN and SINGAPORE supported consideration of the issue by specialized agencies.
On the COP/MOP, Switzerland, with New Zealand, said it would only "take note" of the reports of the compliance body.
Discussions focused on the level of ambition of the JWG, in particular whether it should 93complete its work 94 at COP-6, as proposed by the EU, the US and others, or 93make substantial progress 94 at COP-6, as supported by SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, UAE and others.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said cooperation must be based on CBDR and historical responsibility, and should focus on the negative impacts of climate change and response measures.
Colombia, opposed by Samoa, supported equal treatment of forestry in the CDM.
Mali, for the African Group, emphasized the WIM and raised concerns about the slow progress in the initiation of its work programme.
NORWAY, the EU and the US said this section should be succinct, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION adding it should be scientifically-based.
AUSTRALIA made reference to the climate finance ‘Roadmap to US$100 Billion.’ Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested reflecting Decision 1/CP.21 paragraphs 53  and 55 .
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a focused, urgent and meaningful response to the “numbers” issue.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said that agreement on a second commitment period is a top priority that requires movement away from the precondition that all parties take on responsibilities.
On mitigation commitments or actions, the EU, supported by NORWAY, highlighted the level of ambition as the core of the discussions, and proposed that the Secretariat prepare a technical paper on emission reduction pledges by developed countries.
TUVALU and BRAZIL highlighted legal implications of a gap for the flexibility mechanisms, in particular the CDM, and other institutional arrangements in the Marrakesh Accords.
Norway and Japan called for the TEC and CTCN to be more involved in the TEMs, with New Zealand suggesting they manage the TEMs and communicate their outcomes.
Maldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the need for Annex I emission reductions in the range of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and Bangladesh called for deep cuts.
CHINA supported reference to enhancing existing institutions in the agreement, while the EU expressed preference for COP decisions.
TUVALU, with the US, JAPAN and BRAZIL, questioned how REDD-plus relates to the discussions in other sub-groups.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UAE, said the distinction could be made later.
She explained that baseline scenarios will involve a dramatic increase in global primary energy demand by 2030, particularly in China and India, and that urgent action is required given that these countries will “lock in” their investment within the next decade in energy infrastructure that will last for 60 years.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, stressed the need for expedited procedures for the approval of NAPAs.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , highlighted the challenge of producing outcomes that provide for immediate action in all countries and lay the groundwork for completing unfinished work in South Africa.
 CANADA, with ARGENTINA, FRANCE and others, stressed the need for the IPCC to use international events to disseminate information, and for individual governments to disseminate information nationally.
Saudi Arabia highlighted the tight schedule for an intersessional consultation, while Italy offered to host this intersessional meeting in Rome.
On timing for non-Annex I national communications, the SBI considered draft conclusions by the Co-Chairs of the contact group, including proposed draft decisions by the G-77/CHINA and the EU as annexes.
The UK, supported by Belgium, called for a country-driven process with inputs from the Bureau and TSUs as advisors but not as members.
Describing offsetting as “a good deal for the atmosphere,” the EU, with NORWAY, proposed a technical workshop to quantify the impact of the different mechanisms.
France, on behalf of the EU, introduced a paper on necessary and available funding.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: more harmonized reflections across items; clarity on addressing pre-2020 work; and further focus on linkages.
Sweden, for the EU, said a Copenhagen deal must deliver concrete results and include all the essential components of the Kyoto Protocol.
Canada, Japan, the EU and others questioned the scientific basis for this level of commitment, with one developed country noting that, while it reflects a similar level of commitment made by Annex B parties in 1997, the 93world has changed 94 since then, and a decision on the level of commitment should now take into account updated scientific information.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs and TURKEY called for mentioning how science guides the agreement.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that sub-Saharan Africa only accounts for 1.7% of CDM projects.
Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the African Group, highlighted progress on, inter alia: the NWP; development and transfer of technology; research and systematic observation; and the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
The EU and SWITZERLAND opposed sinks projects in the CDM, as it raised questions of methodological uncertainty, non-permanence and leakage.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized that the text should focus on implementation on the ground.
On adjustments, Slovakia, the US, New Zealand and Canada said all inventory problems were adjustable, while the EU said inventory problems of a specific threshold were not adjustable.
 Abhisit Vejjajiva, Prime Minister of Thailand, noted encouraging statements at the Secretary-General’s Climate Change Summit by major economies, such as the US, China, Japan and India, expressing unprecedented commitments.
She agreed to take the lead on informal consultations with Brazil and the EU to look for ways to resolve the issue.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Qatar, stated that COP decision 10/CP.9 on adaptation should also be reflected in the agenda of the SBI, and suggested deferring adoption of the SBSTA agenda until the SBI matter was resolved.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for a balanced and ambitious outcome in Durban in accordance with provisions and principles of the Convention, especially the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the US and the EU, suggested including the proposal as an option in the facilitator’s note.
Greg Combet, Minister of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the collective contribution of his group to fast-start finance of US$20 billion and said they are ready to support a deal that puts in place the building blocks of a comprehensive climate framework.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed differentiated reporting for countries with economy-wide emission reduction targets and developing countries, emphasizing means of support.
Sudan, for the African Group and the LMDCs supported differentiation in the section, with the LMDCs calling for a compliance arrangement for developed countries and facilitative implementation for developing countries.
On IPRs, AUSTRALIA called for greater cooperation with relevant organizations such as the World Intellectual Property Organization and, with the US, noted that IPRs incentivize technology development.
Belgium said the schedule appeared reasonable and Austria noted that the Co-Chairs felt that the schedule would not compromise the quality of the reports.
The US and Australia highlighted the iterative nature of the process of developing policy-relevant questions for the SYR.
 The EU, the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA welcomed the decision by Australia to ratify the Protocol.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, with PERU, said too much emphasis was being placed on the needs assessment while losing focus on implementing technology transfer.
The US, along with Finland and others, suggested that the discussion was being hamstrung by the four categories in the discussion paper.
On the base year for additional activities, PAPUA NEW GUINEA noted the challenge of using 1990 due to inadequate data and the EU said that incentives will depend on whether the reference level is fixed in time or is tracked through periods.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed hope that the work under the ADP will lead to concrete and positive outcomes for all parties, in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Convention.
Spain, for the EU, proposed extending the invitation to intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.
The EU, with NORWAY, underscored that they wished to see a collective ambition to reduce emissions by 30% below 1990 levels by 2020.
Nigeria, on behalf of the G-77/China, expressed disappointment that more progress had not been achieved at this critical session in Lyon.
AOSIS, Norway and the LDCs stressed that an ex ante assessment of INDCs is necessary to inform whether e2 80 9cwe are on the right track e2 80 9d to achieve the 2 c2 b0C goal, suggesting the Secretariat assess aggregate ambition.
The main questions summarized in the note include: whether discussions should take place under the AWG-LCA and the objective of such discussions; whether the draft text should be used as a basis for negotiations; and whether the group has a mandate to discuss trade.Many developing countries expressed reservations with the note, lamenting that their views were not adequately reflected while Canada and Australia welcomed the Facilitator’s note.
In the closing ceremony, two children, Timoci Naulusala, Fiji, and Hanna Wojdowska, Poland, called on everyone to take forward a clear signal from the Talanoa Dialogue, act with urgency, and recognize that we are in a race against time.
Brazil, South Africa, Nicaragua, Mexico and the Maldives stressed the need for additional language, including on: the inclusion of local communities and indigenous peoples; and evidence gathering, such as from workshops, on highly vulnerable areas that do not have peer-reviewed literature, but this was not accepted.
India and China underscored the need for information on how to achieve temperature goals.
The US, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by ARGENTINA, AOSIS, the EU and MAURITIUS, disputed discussion on inputs from the COP to the BPOA+10 and WCDR.
AOSIS, the EU, the G-77/China, and Antigua and Barbuda disagreed with the US, stating that, as consideration of this item had not been concluded, the rules of procedure dictated that it be taken up at the next SBSTA session.
With the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, she emphasized that QELROs must be negotiated between parties and not prescribed.
Sweden, for the EU, emphasized the need to condense the negotiating text and focus on the key political issues forming the pillars.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and SAMOA said the issue of confidentiality of information might conflict with the principle of transparency and needed further thought.
In plenary, AOSIS stressed the key role of the Adaptation Fund, with Thailand, for the G-77/China, urging its enhancement pre-2020 and beyond.
The EU and Norway proposed that further analytical work be carried out while advancing the AWG’s work programme.
SAUDI ARABIA said the amendment came in reaction to the EU proposal, which upsets the Convention\'s "delicate balance."
Tuvalu and Kenya, opposed by Canada, said SBSTA should broaden further guidance on the matter.
In discussions, the US, EU, Saint Lucia, Switzerland, Indonesia, Egypt and Venezuela raised a number of issues, including: the role of LULUCF; the management of offsets in the context of interactions between developed and developing country parties; equitable access to sustainable development; and innovative approaches to using surplus AAUs.
On text requesting the Secretariat to make available information on P&amp;Ms related to the future work on P&amp;Ms as reported in the national communications by Annex I Parties, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, JAPAN and CANADA, urged reference to information on P&amp;Ms implemented and planned "under the Convention and its Protocol."
Germany supported this proposal, but Saudi Arabia preferred deleting the entire paragraph, citing its primary reliance was on one source.
Belgium, Kenya, South Africa, Greece, Brazil and others suggested exploring contributions from scientific, research and philanthropic institutions as needed so long as conflict of interest is avoided.
With CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and IRAN, she regretted the absence of developed country Parties from a scheduled contact group meeting the previous night.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, agreed, noting that, while everyone should participate, rules are required.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to take into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, highlighting that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter national communications obligations than Annex I countries.
She announced that AILAC and the Caribbean Community  will be submitting a paper on how the Talanoa Dialogue can help realize more ambitious NDCs.
GUYANA, with COSTA RICA and SURINAME, said the decision to bring REDD to SBSTA was made by the COP and that no party subsequently has the right to remove it from the agenda.
The US and AUSTRALIA stressed comparability as something that is important for national decisions.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and US, suggested replacing the sentence and surrounding text with a specific paragraph from decision 13/CP.7.
MALAYSIA expressed concern about the proliferation of funds outside the Convention and INDIA said financing should be in the form of grants.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , said the texts have elements “that we all like and do not like,” expressed support for the package and commended the President for rebuilding trust in the process.
ESTONIA, supported by LATVIA and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, said guidelines should be revised with flexibility.
YUGOSLAVIA, opposed by the EU, said it could not support Croatia 92s 1990 baseline proposal.
Supported by Lesotho, for the LDCs, Spain, for the EU, Panama, South Africa, Australia, Colombia, Malawi, the Philippines and Norway, AOSIS proposed requesting the Secretariat prepare a technical paper on the options for limiting global average temperature increase to below 1.5°C and 2°C.
CHINA, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, suggested a 2017 APA agenda item on Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53 .
The PHILIPPINES, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that needs were still being assessed after five years.
On paragraphs 132.6 on global collaboration on research, development and demonstration of technologies, and 133 and 133.1 on institutional arrangements for technology development and transfer, INDIA cautioned against interpretive approaches to consolidation, preferring mechanical streamlining, with TUVALU agreeing that the proposed consolidation of 133 and 133.1 would change the meaning of the paragraphs.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, underlined that the issue of financing is of “utmost importance for a successful outcome in Doha.” She stated that without finance, institutions will be empty and ineffective, and expressed concern about the lack of progress on adaptation and technology transfer in the text.
The Russian Federation requested clarification of the meaning of “actions” and “commitments.” The EU insisted on “commitments” only.
The EU stressed, however, that the COP/MOP’s decision must be limited to the basis on which Croatia’s appeal has been launched.
The EU, supported by TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, ARGENTINA, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, GERMANY and the US, proposed requesting the IPCC to complete this work on the basis of these submissions in consultation with the Joint Working Group of officers of the FCCC and the IPCC.
The UK, France, Slovenia and others supported inclusion of external members, with perhaps different terms of office, in order to bring fresh insights and provide helpful input.
Regarding the interim allocation, the EU said it regards this proposal as a positive attempt to give certainty and security to the financing of the Protocol, while JAPAN said these costs should be included in the Supplemental Trust Fund, not in the core budget.
On placement of text, the Marshall Islands, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and the US, emphasized that the aggregate ambition assessment should be part of the agreement, while specific modalities could be established in future decisions.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the text needed elaboration on issues such as forestry, international consultation and analysis  for developing countries, mitigation and monitoring, review and verification , as well as tighter, more operative language.
Switzerland, supported by Norway, the European Union , and Belize, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean , proposed a joint session between SBSTA and APA Agenda Item 5  at COP 24, stressing the need for coherence.
Australia, Japan, Canada, Singapore and China argued that work on bunker fuels should be taken up in relevant international organizations, such as the ICAO and the IMO.
JAPAN and CANADA noted the need to specify that the payment would be postponed until the first issuance of Certified Emission Reductions .
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for further reflection of the financial and other costs of adaptation efforts and actions, noting that some developing countries undertake adaptation actions without MOI and this information could be useful.
CUBA, COSTA RICA, PERU and others emphasized that the Synthesis Report must use inputs from the best experts with balanced geographic representation and, with SRI LANKA, EL SALVADOR and others, said cross-cutting themes should be integrated into the substance of the report.
JAPAN, supported by AUSTRALIA, and opposed by TUVALU, said Article 3.4 should be applied from the first commitment period.
JAPAN, INDIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stated that the Revised Guidelines should be applied to recalculate 1990 base year GHG inventories and all subsequent years.
Highlighting the vulnerability of LDCs, TANZANIA, for the LDCs, stressed the need for the entry into force of the Protocol and constructive work on matters relating to technology transfer, capacity building and LDCs.
While AUSTRALIA, POLAND, CANADA and the US favored bracketing text, the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA stressed that this was not a negotiation and suggested instead that Parties focus only on "inclusions" to the text.
On paragraph 5 , Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested deleting the reference to the objective of illustrating the progress made, saying it is duplicative.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE opposed.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA added that the Protocol principles should be reflected in the design of the compliance system itself.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that mixed resources are the best approach and that the state’s role is vital for financing for adaptation.
BRAZIL called for a concise review and stressed the importance of reaching a decision on extending the share of proceeds at this session, while the EU said resources for adaptation should be seen in the broader context of the AWG-LCA discussions.
Recalling problems in the AR5 related to the lack of data on Africa, Mali, supported by Tanzania, South Africa and Zimbabwe, underscored the need to address data gaps for Africa in the AR6, and called for the use of grey literature in this regard.
The EU, TUVALU, SAMOA, CHINA and JAMAICA urged that the CDM exclude provision for sinks.
 Following comments from the EU and the PHILIPPINES on non-Annex I Parties’ use of guidelines and methodologies for inventories, ARGENTINA suggested text encouraging non-Annex I Parties’ to apply the revised 1996 guidelines in communicating their national GHG inventories.
SINGAPORE, supported by CHILE, the US, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COSTA RICA, COLOMBIA and the GAMBIA, reiterated his proposal, clarifying that it aims to maintain a distinction between the two agenda items and retains item 4, while adding the words “in accordance with Decision 1/CP.17.”
The G-77/ China, with China, Uruguay and Uganda, underscored developing countries 92 need for financial support to carry out R&amp;SO.
On "[initial] assigned amounts," the US and JAPAN stressed that the terminology was dependent on the outcome of the mechanisms group.
The following countries were assessed: Belarus, Canada, Cyprus, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Spain and the US.
The EU and Canada said the proposal deserved further consideration at COP/MOP 2, while the G-77/China firmly opposed further discussion.
POLAND and SAUDI ARABIA suggested amending the last sentence of paragraph 2 on IPCC assistance, which now reads, "The Bureau of SBSTA will request the IPCC Bureau to hold joint meetings and report to each of its sessions on the outcome of these meetings."
Belize, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , highlighted that the best available science requires stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations as far below 350 ppm as possible and limiting temperature increase to below 1.5°C, stressing that 2°C is inconsistent with the Convention’s precautionary approach.
France, for the EU, linked sectoral approaches to carbon markets and cautioned against bottom-up approaches.
e2 80 9d The EU, supported by the Republic of Korea, outlined a sequence in the mitigation cycle: a strategic review of implementation in the context of science; communication and commitments, involving the submission of NDCs; an ex ante process to gain an aggregate sense of NDCs in relation to the temperature goal; and the formalization of NDCs.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need to effectively address loss and damage, raise adaptation and mitigation ambition, and maintain environmental integrity in markets.
The EU, NORWAY, the US and AUSTRALIA suggested this question warrants further discussion noting, inter alia, that it is best considered in light of the overall climate finance architecture; and requires consideration of lessons learned.
On the occasion of the sixth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development , Japan signed the Protocol on 29 April, followed on 30 April by the 15 members of the EU, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Norway and Monaco.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU highlighted the potential role of the clean development mechanism  in technology transfer.
New Zealand, with Germany, Sweden, Belgium, Japan, the Netherlands and Norway, supported the inclusion of scenarios as a cross-cutting theme.
Stressing that the AWG-KP is a separate process, TUVALU, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ANGOLA, SINGAPORE, CHILE and many other non-Annex I countries emphasized that the Protocol’s mechanisms should not be discussed under the AWG-LCA.
 AUSTRALIA, supporting the EU on the preparation of guidelines, said that the national communications of all Parties was central to the FCCC and that the development of guidelines should be undertaken in a timely fashion.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and the BAHAMAS, among others, urged requesting the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement.
The ADP Co-Chairs proposed informal discussions on finance continue coordinated by Gary William Theseira, Malaysia, and Christo Artusio, US.
The authors, with Bolivia, Norway, Austria, Mexico and others, preferred e2 80 9cwould e2 80 9d since the text specifically refers to large-scale SRM.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and others stressed the need to consider safety and other issues.
Responding to Tuvalu’s request to clarify their views regarding the Protocol’s future, the EU explained that the Protocol’s architecture has many elements that can be taken forward.
TUVALU stressed environmental integrity and the US emphasized ongoing actions.
PAKISTAN, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed the Group 92s commitment to the WSSD and noted concerns that Parties were failing to fulfill their Rio commitments.
BRAZIL, INDONESIA, TOGO and INDIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, supported holding consultations on this issue.
NORWAY suggested that reference levels and MRV should be considered following Copenhagen and, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA and CAMBODIA, highlighted the importance of a phased approach.
 The US supported a suggestion by India and the EU to establish a smaller, open-ended group that would be a more appropriate forum for further discussion on this item.
BANGLADESH, NAURU, the SUDAN and ZAMBIA said the accreditation process should be simplified to facilitate access.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with BANGLADESH, PAKISTAN and others, underlined that this mechanism should lead to action on technology and go beyond assessments or information exchange.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that the agreement’s legal nature should not be discussed ahead of agreement on the substance.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, said the TEC and centers and networks should have equal standing and they would report to the COP through the SBSTA.
 Expressing disappointment at the lack of a more substantive outcome, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, proposed an alternative text noting that the group had ef bf bdfailed to reach conclusions.
AILAC and CHILE called for a registry of adaptation actions.
The second part of the session examined barriers and lessons learned in relation to financing, focusing in particular on case studies from Ghana and China.
 Papua New Guinea stated that the biggest disappointment was the waiting game that developing States must play in adoption of the AOSIS protocol.
Responding to questions by FIJI and NORWAY on uncertainties related to LULUCF accounting and their impact on achieving the US e2 80 99s 2020 target, he highlighted improvements in data and accounting methods, and harmonization of approaches across agencies since the publication of the country e2 80 99s first biennial report as sources of increased confidence.
China suggested that some themes could be incorporated as cross-cutting issues in the AR5, and Japan said requests from the UNFCCC should be a priority.
South Africa, for G-77/CHINA, noted that: the elements for a draft negotiating text annexed to Decision 1/CP.20  are not fully negotiated; streamlining of options must be based on consensus; and parties’ views must be reflected in the text in a balanced manner.
The US suggested continuing consideration of this proposal and other OECD members’ relationship to Annex I at COP-4.
Colombia, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , called for a coherent and balanced set of recommendations for the CMA.
On mitigation in the agriculture sector, URUGUAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, called for increased action, and proposed a workshop on this topic in Poznan.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, said the proposals were inconsistent with the Convention and the BAP and did not consider the needs of LDCs.
TUVALU, supported by BRAZIL, proposed compulsory accounting for forest biomass decline to ensure carbon stock losses do not go unaccounted for as a result of the definition of forest.
The US and JAPAN stated that the key elements of the arrangements were already agreed upon and the GCF had independent juridical authority operating under the guidance of the COP and was therefore capable of drafting the arrangements.
PANAMA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested replacing text on reporting and accounting with a reference to Agreement Article 4.13 .
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported open and transparent negotiations on the Chair’s draft text.
Saudi Arabia, US, Brazil and others, opposed by Italy and France, noted lack of time to continue consideration of the regional table.
The US, supported by NORWAY, called for using actual methodology where data is available.
An informal group, facilitated by Mexico and Slovakia and assisted by the Co-Chairs of the LULUCF contact group, was convened.
 For paragraph 4, on meetings of subsidiary bodies, the EU and Argentina commented that convening the meetings in conjunction with the sessions of the COP would not allow the Secretariat time to disseminate the results.
The US questioned an EU proposal to end the paragraph with: "with a view to the COP taking whatever decisions it considers necessary."
AUSTRALIA and CANADA urged Parties to reach agreement on the rules.
BANGLADESH preferred not to discuss new mechanisms, and CHINA highlighted the need to focus on aggregate and individual targets for Annex I parties.
In response to Ghana 92s proposal, UGANDA and CANADA said these elements provide operational guidance and should not be included in the draft conclusions.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the nomination of a Bureau member from Samoa to represent SIDS.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed including the proposals for frameworks as well as the related structural proposals, stressing the distinction between mitigation by developed and developing countries both in magnitude and legal nature.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that they do not want to eliminate any of the six languages in Rule 54.
The EU and MALAWI discussed potential areas of synergy among processes under the Convention, facilitating the identification and assessment of risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems.
Argentina, opposed by the US, questioned the appropriateness of the emissions intensity measurement.
 France, Switzerland, Germany, Zambia, Austria and others supported stating that CCS 93could be 94 a mitigation option, while Saudi Arabia, Australia, and the US expressed a preference for stating that CCS 93is 94 a mitigation option.
 CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, INDIA and KUWAIT, made a point of order, emphasizing a potential conflict of interest given that COP Vice-President Van Lierop was nominated to the COP Bureau by the Latin American and Caribbean Group .
Colombia and Mexico, supported by South Africa, emphasized the need to consider sustainable development.
ECUADOR called for language on “respect for traditional knowledge.” COSTA RICA, with the PHILIPPINES, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, SUDAN and TANZANIA, highlighted the need to address sustainable livelihoods.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, also for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, said termination of the AWG-LCA in Doha should only occur after a successful agreed outcome on all elements of the BAP mandate.
Responding to a question by BRAZIL on a projected increase in Croatia e2 80 99s emissions, she explained that the EU e2 80 9ceffort sharing e2 80 9d enables an increase of 11% of non-ETS emissions by 2020, from 2005, but Croatia is taking measures to remain below this target.
Saudi Arabia, Brazil and China cautioned against e2 80 9ccherry picking e2 80 9d from the SED report.
The EU, opposed by CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, preferred the branches to have different expertise corresponding to their functions.
With regard to concerns expressed by Brazil and the United Kingdom about flooding the market with carbon credits, Papua New Guinea said that for small countries with a low GDP, market instruments are the only way to overcome the carbon emissions associated with deforestation, but stressed that industrialized countries must agree on much higher emission reduction targets.
The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by AOSIS, said those aiming to leave the Kyoto Protocol are doing so because they want to do less.
SAUDI ARABIA, with CHINA and others, reiterated that “the form should follow function.” He also stressed that the “function” cannot be clarified before a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol has been agreed.
  On Thursday, Saudi Arabia, opposed by France, requested removing reference to the social cost of carbon from the bullet point on costs and non-monetized loss, benefits, synergies and trade-offs.
 JAPAN, the EU, CANADA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AOSIS, opposed by CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others, supported requesting submissions on procedures for amending the Annexes to the Protocol.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a new climate change framework that builds on the Kyoto Protocol, when appropriate, and takes operationalizing the Cancun Agreements as a foundation for future action.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, underscored the importance of converting pledges into quantified commitments, including use of a single base year.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, with TANZANIA, suggested starting with institutional arrangements and means of implementation, while the EU warned this could lead to “getting stuck” in circular discussions.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and PARAGUAY, highlighted the three-phased approach, and suggested that the text avoid using terminology that links REDD to the flexibility mechanisms.
Noting there is almost zero mitigation potential in energy production due to near 100% deployment of renewable energy, Iceland highlighted the potential for carbon sequestration, including LULUCF, subject to provisions including: joint target setting with other parties; the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol, particularly Article 4  or similar arrangements; extension of Decision 14/CP.7 ; and agreement with the EU on joint fulfillment.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA underscored the importance of maintaining demand for CDM credits.
Japan, with Mexico, requested that boundaries be defined for spillover effects, and Australia suggested that these could relate to programmes and measures taken by parties in relation to obligations.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by CHINA, recommended deleting the option of “implementing agreement” from the title of the draft agreement.
Mexico suggested developing strategic partnerships with academic institutions to enhance communications and outreach activities, while Finland suggested ensuring the clearest possible language in the original AR6 products to reduce the need for those activities in the first place.
She noted that Mexico would hold further consultations in the coming months in cooperation with South Africa as the incoming COP President.
MALAYSIA, BELIZE, the PHILIPPINES, UGANDA, INDIA and CHILE opposed AIJ as a means of or conditionality for technology transfer or other bilateral assistance.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA , called for concrete outcomes from the facilitative dialogue on enhancing ambition and support and a concrete pathway toward US$100 billion in financial support by 2020.
CHILE, supported by the US, stated that, while the facilitated groups may advance at different speeds, they shared the common purpose of making the Geneva text more workable.
SWITZERLAND suggested reflecting other future processes in the AWG ef bf bds work programme and CANADA proposed coordinating their timeframes.
Switzerland, for the EIG, identified the need to, inter alia: raise the ambition of Annex I targets; enhance the Clean Development Mechanism  and carbon market; and consider carryover of Assigned Amount Units .
 Sheriff Faizool, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Trinidad and Tobago 92s Ministry of Public Utilities and the Environment, said the seminar produced excellent results and expressed hope that participants will be able to use such results to make changes in their own countries regarding adaptation.
AOSIS, NEW ZEALAND, CG-11, AUSTRALIA and the EU supported continued work based on the proposal.
The US, opposed by the G-77/China, recommended text requiring non-Annex I Parties to submit national inventories every two years.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and EGYPT noted that issues are advancing at unequal speed, which may lead to an unbalanced process.
In the morning, Canada, Cyprus, France, Greece and Iceland presented.
Japan, Canada and the US stressed enabling private investment and low-carbon growth, with the EU and the US clarifying that private finance will not replace public finance.
Malawi, for the LDCs, emphasized, inter alia, improving procedures to facilitate access to finance.
The EU, supported by KENYA, noted the value of the Registry in matching projects with funding sources, indicating that it should not substitute other MRV requirements.
BRAZIL, CHINA, and SENEGAL opposed amending Annex A to include new gases.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, the EU, Belize, Chile, for AILAC, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Turkey endorsed the Co-Chairs’ text.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and JAMAICA supported detailed and rigorous reporting.
Kenya, supported by Mauritius, called for more time to consider the details.
CUBA, QATAR and SAUDI ARABIA opposed any attempt to compel developing countries to take on “voluntary commitments.” The REPUBLIC OF KOREA recognized that voluntary commitments was a sensitive issue, but there would be a need for global participation over time.
SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and the UAE argued this would go beyond streamlining.
Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, AND URUGUAY, said real progress would not be possible without properly addressing finance issues and called for building flexibility for developing countries into the procedures of the transparency framework and the implementation and compliance committee.
On multiplication and discount factors under the CDM, JAPAN, CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, BRAZIL and others preferred no decision.
SWITZERLAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that a contact group be established using the Chair 92s consolidated text as a basis for discussion.
The US, supported by COLOMBIA, but opposed by some parties, proposed also including the project-based mechanisms.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that adaptation actions in developing countries must be supported by developed countries in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
The COP convened presidency consultations on this issue, in conjunction with other matters related to finance, co-facilitated by Yasmine Fouad, Minister of Environment, Egypt, and Jochen Flasbarth, State Secretary at the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Germany.
Norway, the US, Japan and New Zealand proposed that MRV should also apply to developing countries, taking into account to the differences between them.
On the provisional agenda for COP-6, the US, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SAUDI ARABIA said the proposed new sub-item on P&amp;Ms should await SBSTA 92s consideration.
CHINA, with IRAN, KUWAIT, BRAZIL and ARGENTINA, said it was inappropriate to give ERTs, a simple fact finding body, a triggering role.
China underscored the need to improve the balance in choice and interpretation of literature, and Austria suggested more than three working groups to meet the future needs.
Uganda, for the LDCs, highlighted difficulties in implementing national adaptation programmes of action  due to inadequate resources.
Benin, for the LDCs, supported by BARBADOS, JAMAICA, FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, BRAZIL, ZAMBIA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO expressed concern over including CCS under the CDM.
The EU highlighted complexity added by lack of institutional capacity to the determination of potential consequences, with SAUDI ARABIA stating that this shifted the blame of consequences to developing countries.
AOSIS drew attention to the Barbados Programme of Action and emphasized regional efforts in addressing capacity building needs.
The EU and GABON presented consolidated text on MRV with paragraphs on: monitoring and reporting; reference levels; and verification.
SWAZILAND, JAPAN and UGANDA called for a specific discussion on which existing institutions could be strengthened and how, with Senegal, for the LDCs, Jamaica, for AOSIS, and China, for the G-77/CHINA, questioning whether the Durban Forum on Capacity-building could address existing gaps, as suggested by the US.
TUVALU and BARBADOS expressed disappointment at the deletion of items 3 and 4 and sought reassurance that these items would be taken up by the AWG-LCA.
CHINA and BRAZIL underscored the importance of fulfilling the mandate from COP 17 to develop methodologies for reporting financial information with a view to recommending a decision to COP 20.
The PHILIPPINES urged implementation and said the EGTT already fulfills that advisory role, and GHANA noted that an advisory group is similar to the expert panels proposed by the G-77/China.
JAPAN, supported by the US, recalled that the GEF was the vehicle for this funding.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the importance of the LDC work programme and welcomed the decision to extend the LEG’s mandate.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need for predictability and assessment of financing needs.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Egypt, had commented that data on costs is crucial for policymakers, and pointed to many useful details in the underlying report, such as that 2016-2050 energy costs to support a 1.5 c2 b0C pathway would be USD 500 billion higher than investment under a 2 c2 b0C-consistent pathway.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with many other developing countries, stressed that the use of LULUCF and the flexibility mechanisms should aim to increase the level of ambition of the current pledges and not just to achieve the current pledges.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, said the balance struck in the Paris outcome between mitigation and adaptation needs to be maintained, and that intellectual property rights should not be a barrier for technology transfer.
On a paragraph with three options relating to enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition, including a possible forum or mechanism to assess implementation, the EU, with the US, Canada, India, Australia, New Zealand, Iran, Algeria, for the Arab Group, Belarus, Japan and Switzerland, preferred the first option, suggesting the COP reiterates its resolve, as set out in Decision 1/CP.19, paragraphs 3 and 4, to accelerate the full implementation of the decisions constituting the agreed outcome pursuant to decision 1/CP.13  and enhance ambition in the pre-2020 period in order to ensure the highest possible mitigation efforts under the Convention by all parties.
China, Saudi Arabia and Jamaica proposed removing this text, while the EU, Norway and Senegal wanted to retain it.
AUSTRALIA and the US suggested prioritization of issues.
On Thursday, 3 December, in the contact group, the EU, Colombia for AILAC, the US, and others said that the INDCs imply self-differentiation.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA and VENEZUELA, proposed that "Parties" rather than "Chairmen" agree on NGO participation in informal contact groups.
On the global goal, the EU, Brazil, Japan, Cuba and others identified the need for a long-term global goal.
On paragraph 11, the EU, supported by GHANA, preferred that the Committee report to each session of the COP, and agreed to deletion of a reference to the SBI.
A number of countries, including the PHILIPPINES, KUWAIT and CANADA, said that the SBSTA should not invite the GEF to support Parties’ efforts on improving systematic observations.
An attempt at a compromise formulation on the process was proposed on Wednesday, 25 May by Australia, suggesting text inviting Parties to submit 93views on further implementation of relevant aspects of the Mauritius Declaration and Strategy through ongoing work of the SBI and SBSTA, as appropriate.
Swaziland, for the African Group, underscored adaptation and mitigation in line with the 1.5°C target as the context for the means of implementation.
The EU agreed with G77/CHINA that flexible mechanisms should be available in the future, but raised the possibility of expanding them.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored compliance, noting that MRV of financial support from developed countries should be undertaken in “a robust and rigorous manner.” He emphasized the importance of ensuring coherence between the financial mechanism and the thematic bodies, with each body having its own governance structure.
INDIA, the UAE, CHINA, BELIZE and TUVALU opposed.
The EU, SAMOA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN preferred the original formulation, or variations on this formulation.
Many African countries called for including forest degradation, and Papua New Guinea, India and others, opposed by Brazil and others, stressed stabilization and conservation..
China, supported by Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, India, Kuwait, Micronesia and Iran, suggested changing the phrase to "as appropriate and to the extent possible simplified."
The US, CANADA, JAPAN and others saw no need for new institutional arrangements for adaptation.
Commenting on the chapter’s structure, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, supported by the US, suggested incorporating elements of a shared vision into a political statement including a long-term global goal.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted, inter alia, the critical work ahead to ensure that guidance on features, information and accounting for NDCs can accelerate efforts to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 c2 b0C.
India suggested three new chapters on: adaptation planning and implementation at national and subnational levels; international cooperation for adaptation; and, supported by Norway and the Maldives, climate risks to the economy, including the tourism and insurance sectors.
CROATIA pointed to new emissions estimates and projections that do not include emissions from neighboring countries, noting that the concerns of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro are no longer relevant.
However, JAPAN, COSTA RICA, PANAMA, COLOMBIA, BARBADOS, the EU, GHANA and AUSTRALIA supported the contact group.
Maldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the Adaptation Fund, suggesting application of the adaptation levy to other flexible mechanisms, not just the CDM, and to international maritime and air transport.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a fully ratifiable amendment to Annex B with full commitments expressed as QELROs in simple numbers.
With the US, EU, CANADA, JAPAN, KUWAIT and AUSTRALIA, the AFRICAN GROUP favored bracketing the new Co-Chairs\' draft entirely.
Zimbabwe, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for an article defining communication of the different types of undertakings, with flexibility for parties with limited capacity.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said only the G-77/China’s proposal came close to providing the required level of resources.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, lamented that “very little” progress had been made during the week and called for focusing on the most crucial issues early in Copenhagen to provide solid negotiating text for political leaders.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said two decades of negotiations had not produced the expected results, and developed countries were not meeting even the modest goals agreed in Kyoto.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that given the limited number of developing country delegates it would be hard to work simultaneously in drafting groups and Plenary.
Sierra Leone, for the African Group, emphasized retaining reference to the particular circumstances of the LDCs and Africa.
Brazil, with the Central African Republic and Kenya, said that it was premature to consider a review.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , said Doha must set out a work plan up to 2015, including milestones.
INDIA, supported by MICRONESIA and others, proposed a group or committee of experts and regional centers.
The non-paper includes amended text as well as a joint submission by the EU and BRAZIL on non-permanence, and a new version of Appendix E. Several submissions were also noted, including on invasive alien species and GMOs, small-scale and special projects, and the insurance approach to non-permanence.
South Africa, supported by AILAC, emphasized that transparency is no substitute for legal force.
There was divergence over the purpose of the framework, with the US, Canada and the EU stating that it should enhance implementation of Article 4.5.
He added the concept of "compliance reserve" and, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported loss of access to mechanisms.
After the EU and all other parties had accepted this language, the US agreed to join the consensus, and the decision on long-term action under the Convention was adopted.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, objected.
Stressing the AWG’s legal mandate, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about suggestions to link the AWG with the new AWGLCA process.
On Friday, 4 December, the EU, supported by Colombia for AILAC, Maldives for the Alliance of Small Islands States , and the US called for clarifying the date for the submission of contributions.
COLOMBIA noted they could agree to the US proposal for a new sub-group but emphasized that the issue of support by developed countries should also be discussed in this context.
However, SAUDI ARABIA, with INDIA, VENEZUELA, ALGERIA, KUWAIT, OMAN, NIGERIA, ECUADOR and CHINA, opposed a contact group and preferred that the COP President or a Vice-President hold informal consultations.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP, said that building “permanent homes” for finance, technology and capacity building has been no small feat, and emphasized that this work will continue through the new established mechanisms.
Australia, New Zealand and the EU said they are not ready to agree to a contact group at this time.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported by the INTERNATIONAL EMISSIONS TRADING ASSOCIATION , proposed an assessment of the CDM by COP/MOP 4.
The lack of progress by Annex I Parties on financial backing and technology transfer was also noted by CUBA, the PHILIPPINES, CHINA and INDIA.
OMAN and QATAR underscored the importance of implementing UNFCCC Article 4.8  with respect to response measures.
Colombia and Brazil emphasized the need for a country-driven approach.
COP President Hedegaard indicated that proposals relating to adoption of new protocols under the Convention had been received from five countries: Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, Tuvalu and the US .
Participants discussed the need to improve national and regional level data, which contributes to global networks; the Russian Federation stressed the importance of homogeneity so that data is comparable among countries; and Ethiopia highlighted the need for high quality data.
Canada, with Spain, added that regional workshops might be the best means to share information, discuss opportunities, and integrate other sectors and institutions.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, said Durban must deliver an outcome that ensures the fulfillment of the Convention’s ultimate objective.
While the EU and developing countries favored this text, the US, Canada, Japan and the Russian Federation argued that it was overly-prescriptive and was attempting to prejudge the outcome of the process.
The Chair asked Canada and Zimbabwe to co-chair a contact group to prepare a draft decision.
Bolivia, with Venezuela, opposed this, calling the proposal an “underhanded” way to include new market mechanisms on the agenda under the guise of a research item.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported working in a single contact group with spinoff groups, noted the usefulness of the workshops, and called for early establishment of a registry and the adoption of guidelines for NAMAs, both those seeking and those not seeking international support.
Delegates heard statements from: UNDP Administrator James Gustave Speth, representatives from the governments of South Africa and Ukraine, and representatives from UNIDO, UNESCO, the International Oceanographic Commission, the Convention to Combat Desertification, the Economic Commission for Europe, the International Energy Agency, the South Pacific Regional Environment Programme, the Second Municipal Leaders\' Summit on Climate Change, Climate Action Network  and the International Chamber of Commerce.
On loss and damage, AOSIS, the LDCs, AILAC, the AFRICAN GROUP and others, opposed by AUSTRALIA, emphasized that it should become a stand-alone element in the new agreement.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored that consideration of loss and damage is mandated by Decision 1/CP.16 .
The final issue to be resolved was on regional distribution, with the EU conceding on an African Group proposal, after ministerial consultations, to insert language encouraging Annex I countries to engage in further initiatives, including financial support, for CDM projects in LDCs, Africa and SIDS, with a view to improving regional distribution.
The US, EU, AUSTRALIA and RUSSIAN FEDERATION suggested deciding on the exact date for submitting the sixth national communication at a later stage, pending the outcome of AWG-LCA discussions.
Colombia, for AILAC, the EU and the US supported early entry into force, and, with the LMDCs, emphasized it should not affect parties’ right to fully participate in the rulemaking process.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BRAZIL, SLOVENIA and NORWAY, suggested that these issues be addressed after COP-9.
Reporting back from the spin-off on loss and damage, GRENADA highlighted two proposals: from the G-77/China, placing a loss and damage mechanism with a climate displacement coordination facility in the agreement, noting that this mechanism would replace the Warsaw International Mechanism  after 2020; and from the US, the EU, Switzerland and Australia, addressing loss and damage through COP decisions, and capturing the WIM’s permanence.
The Gambia, for LDCs, said that although integration of adaptation into development planning is important, implementation of NAPAs must not be delayed by this process.
Japan and the US said a legally-binding agreement should include all major emitters.
Venezuela, for ALBA, condemned the “selfishness” of predatory economies that are destroying the existing climate regime to replace it with a voluntary approach that will be lethal for the planet.
The EU and AUSTRALIA outlined their low-carbon development planning processes and highlighted them as a way in which all countries could, in the context of appropriate levels of funding, facilitate action on technology transfer.
The US, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN raised concerns about the process in which the draft conclusions were reached.
Samoa, for AOSIS, said greenhouse gas  concentrations must be stabilized well below 450 parts per million  and suggested the inclusion of new gases under the Protocol.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted linkages with other issues, including transparency and the global stocktake, and called for examining definitions.
The US and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by the EU, said the Co-Chairs ef bf bd proposal to include discussions on information exchange regarding methodol ef bf bdogies for assessing mitigation and adaptation technologies overlaps with SBSTA ef bf bds ongoing work.
Noting that adaptation measures include policies as well as infrastructure, Australia, supported by the Cook Islands, Saudi Arabia and others, called for different types of stocktaking.
The proposal from the Alliance of Small Island States  garnered widespread support, but was blocked by Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar.
He proposed amending item 8 to read “modalities and guidelines for a process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, which could be employed by other developing countries.” AUSTRALIA and the US opposed this proposal, stressing that it does not reflect balance, while TANZANIA and SAUDI ARABIA supported the proposal.
The US, supported by the EU, opposed singling out the phrase from the Berlin Mandate that specifies no new commitments for developing countries, in the conclusions.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the need for stronger language on using the Kyoto Protocol as the basis for Annex I MRV and compliance, and recalled the G-77/China’s proposal for a technical panel on comparability of developed countries’ mitigation efforts.
The US identified the need to consider the spectrum of countries’ national circumstances and said the registry approach should be considered for both developed and developing countries, while BRAZIL said developed countries must take on commitments and stressed the need to consider comparability of efforts.
The EU and Switzerland said the CDM should commence immediately after COP-6 on a permanent rather than interim basis.
New Zealand and AILAC welcomed a list of possible questions presented by the LMDCs, who suggested submissions on information in addition to what is listed in decision 1/CP.21  on, inter alia: linkage between the global stocktake and other institutional arrangements; procedural format; inclusion of science; establishment of a SED; timeframe; and possible outputs.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with SOUTH AFRICA, said all countries should be encouraged to develop adaptation plans, and proposed biennial reports on MOI for adaptation provided to developing countries.
Kuwait and Venezuela opposed sectoral approaches reflected in the proposals on sectoral crediting and trading.
Parties noted proposals by Japan , Tuvalu , the US , Australia , Costa Rica  and Grenada .
On the substance of Croatia’s appeal, CROATIA explained that the Compliance Committee referred the case to the COP/MOP, as the Enforcement Branch’s mandate does not cover all aspects of it.
On workstream 2, Nauru, for AOSIS, presented draft decision text on “enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition.” The text underscores an urgency to close the existing pre-2020 mitigation ambition gap, and provides a detailed work plan for 2013 with a series of workshops on several thematic areas.
The US, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA said this issue was not a priority for COP-6 and could be dealt with through the forthcoming national communications.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 welcomes the first meeting of SED-4, held on 2-3 December 2014 in Lima, Peru, and looks forward to the resumed SED-4 session on 8-9 February 2015 in Geneva, Switzerland;
Saint Lucia lamented that only a single chapter had been dedicated to impacts and said impacts must be the first priority of the SR. Spain and others also suggested more attention to impacts.
The EU said all OECD countries should have stated commitments.
 AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the US and AUSTRALIA also called for speedy completion of the technical papers.
Recalling the decision at IPCC-18, Belgium, supported by Canada, stressed the urgency of hiring an outreach specialist for the IPCC, and stressed that this salary should be reflected in the budget for 2005.
Following agreement to delete reference to collaboration on Technical Papers, Saudi Arabia, with Brazil, the Maldives and Tanzania, also suggested deleting language “specifying production of reports” in partnership with other bodies, including a list of such bodies.
Sweden and Australia preferred maintaining the text as is, and the sentence was accepted as presented.
INDIA said the review of implementation should be addressed in post-Paris decisions, an option CHINA requested remain on the table.
The United Nations, with Colombia, New Zealand, Qatar, and Singapore also participated in the session, with Algeria, Bangladesh, and Barbados also invited.
On high-level engagement, JAPAN, with the EU, NORWAY and BANGLADESH, supported timely delivery of TEM outcomes to policymakers.
Costa Rica, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , commended the Co-Chairs for their e2 80 9cbold and effective e2 80 9d work and said AILAC would e2 80 9ccontinue to build bridges.
Some countries, including the US, questioned the availability of peer reviewed literature available for all of the elements of the outline, and several, including China, underlined the scientific credibility and objectivity of peer-reviewed literature.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, said technology transfer modalities in the agreement should be in accordance with the Convention e2 80 99s principles.
Igor Bashmakov, Center for Energy Efficiency, Russian Federation, addressed implications of Protocol commitments for the energy sector in Russia.
Belarus, the EU and Ukraine favored simplifying amendment procedures.
The G-77/CHINA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported the package.
The EU and Japan, opposed by the G-77/China, reiterated their request to delete the sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize the adverse effects of response measures.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , highlighted climate impacts suffered by AOSIS members and lamented the “collective failure” to fulfill climate change commitments made decades ago.
Guyana and others supported inclusion of positive incentives for carbon storage in countries with low deforestation rates and Nepal stressed community forestry.
NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA called for further consideration of implications of provisional application of provisions.
  On Friday, the US cautioned against any prejudicial treatment of countries’ governance systems and Greece requested reference to “building agreement” rather than “building public agreement.” On Sunday morning, the chapter outline was agreed with textual modifications that refer to, inter alia, governance systems and climate action.
There was consensus on the value of the event, but UGANDA, supported by MALDIVES, GHANA, and others suggested that its technical bent might have been better directed at an audience of actual modellers, and expressed preference for a pre-sessional event instead of taking up two days of negotiating time.
On institutional arrangements, the Arab Group, with China, called for deletion of reference to sub-national, national and regional emissions trading schemes.
The G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA urged retaining reference to the specific organizations, and particularly OPEC.
On Tuesday, 10 June, the EU and the US continued to disagree over the issue of indicative scales.
The LDCs, proposed e2 80 9cnoting, as appropriate, the requirements of Article 17. e2 80 9d The LMDCs suggested that focusing on Article 17 could e2 80 9calign us with a position we should not take at this stage, e2 80 9d and, with the US, proposed e2 80 9cnoting any relevant timing requirements.
FRANCE and DENMARK highlighted the importance of not excluding the possibility that aquifers and geothermal formations could be used to store carbon dioxide even if they have other uses.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed the need to focus on the key operational elements and emphasized commitment to a strong global agreement to avoid dangerous climate change.
On the modalities section, responding to several parties’ concern that technical and/or synthesis papers “should be utilized starting in the second half of 2017 and in 2018” had not been agreed, the EU and SOUTH AFRICA suggested generally recognizing such papers’ value for future sessions.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, JAPAN and others, proposed that the main conclusions reflect that the work of the group is important beyond Poznan.
Colombia reported on the consolidation exercise, as well as on efforts undertaken by Antigua and Barbuda to work on structure.
On the frequency of the TEMs, AOSIS and the EU said there is no need to have TEMs at all UNFCCC meetings, with AOSIS noting that quality, not quantity, is key.
SAUDI ARABIA supported India and Brazil, noting that it would be unacceptable to renegotiate the Convention, and criticized proposals focusing on the energy sector.
Chile, also speaking for Colombia and Costa Rica, supported a technical review of national communications, with a greater focus on GHG inventories.
Responding to COP President Mezouar’s suggestion that the SBI, SBSTA and APA complete their work by Monday, 14 November, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , requested that there be a possibility for consultations to continue past that date on issues related to the Paris Agreement that do not require definitive decisions in Marrakech.
With Libya, Qatar and Venezuela, he supported discouraging fossil fuel production in Annex I countries.
Germany and the Russian Federation prefer to reserve flexibility for countries with economies in transition, but many others appear to want to apply the idea more widely to the timing, location and, possibly, type of steps a country might take to reduce GHG emissions.
The US and EU highlighted numerous reasons for diversification unrelated to climate change.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, disagreed with the draft conclusions that propose forwarding guidelines for national systems under Article 5.1  for consideration by SBI-13.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored the need to increase resources to fight climate change, provide funding for implementation of development plans and develop direct and simplified access to finance especially for SIDS and LDCs.
In discussions, a number of parties welcomed the Secretariat’s technical paper and Norway, Switzerland and the EU said it would be useful to have an analogous paper on developing country pledges.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to strengthen coordination between the AWGs and emphasized that both AWGs should finish their work in Barcelona in November.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented the lack of urgency toward addressing the likely 3-4°C warming, and underlined that although the Cancun Agreements represent a step forward, they still lack scope, substance and ambition.
On the impact of response measures, Japan, supported by the US, but opposed by China and Brazil, stressed that non-Annex II Parties able to support developing countries should be encouraged to do so.
Chile, for AILAC, called for a collective commitment towards low-carbon growth.
Observing that this meeting began in the aftermath of one of the worst hurricane seasons in the Caribbean, Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern that the urgency that led to the Paris Agreement “has already begun to fade.”
China acknowledged long discussions but, with Argentina and India, expressed sympathy for the Brazilian position.
BRAZIL, supported by INDIA, stressed the need to take into account the respective capacities and capabilities of countries.
Highlighting that her proposal could be an “attractive compromise” for many parties, Venezuela suggested language requesting that “the Secretariat, under their own responsibility, prepare an informal technical paper.” Saudi Arabia, with Oman, Kuwait and Qatar, opposed the proposal and encouraged forwarding the item to future sessions.
The EU, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION reiterated their preference for making use of existing channels such as national communications and the SBI, while ARGENTINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SUDAN and CHINA supported establishing a new forum for exchanging information and facilitating dialogue.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, endorsed the targets and timetables in the AOSIS protocol, which was introduced at COP-1.
  On a new non-paper, presented by Facilitator Mukahanana-Sangarwe, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that the cluster on plans and strategies should be moved to the end of the text and opposed including paragraphs referring to, inter alia, targets.
The PHILIPPINES and the GAMBIA stressed focusing attention on new and effective adaptation technologies.
On the subnational level, presenters shared experiences from work with: community empowerment for civic engagement in the Philippines and Kenya; and Georgia’s gender-sensitive nationally appropriate mitigation action .
The Gambia, for LDCs, said there was need to discuss the mandate of the AWG-LCA to continue work on the legal form.
Mali highlighted the impacts of climate change on LDCs.
The US opposed the G-77/China proposal for a TTM since it would be difficult to agree on its terms of reference.
In the evening, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed that: the Secretariat provide a compilation text by 9:00am Thursday, 3 December; the contact group discuss which informal groups must continue and where no further progress is likely; and the contact group consider cross-cutting issues.
BANGLADESH and AOSIS supported regional innovation centers.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by the US, proposed adding the "precautionary approach."
The G-77/China and AOSIS called for establishing an experts 92 working group to advance work and ensure follow-up.
China, Kuwait and India emphasized that discussions should be based on historical responsibility and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Colombia, for AILAC, outlined the sequence as: communication; ex ante assessment; formalization; review; and update of commitments/contributions.
VENEZUELA stated that the wording on the temperature goal is “worse than in the Copenhagen Accord.” PANAMA stated that an “agreement that is perfect for everyone is going to be imperfect and cruel for the planet.”
The US, Japan and Canada preferred using existing committees and networks to improve access to non-English language literature rather than establishing new ones, while the Republic of Korea opposed limiting such committees to those currently in existence.
On languages of communication, Switzerland, with Austria, Spain, France, the Russian Federation and others, opposed an explicit statement that the working language of the IPCC is English, and asked for expanding the translations of the IPCC reports to non-UN language, ensuring the accuracy of translations.
KUWAIT, SAUDI ARABIA, the BAHAMAS and others highlighted the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, with KUWAIT calling for developed country leadership in reducing emissions in these sectors.
Vanuatu, for AOSIS, supported a regional-level mechanism to support national adaptation plans.
 On a sentence noting that lack of local capital is a key constraint for waste management in developing countries, Belarus said the problem also applies to economies in transition, while Mauritius drew attention to lack of technical knowledge.
CANADA, with the EU, highlighted the need for demand-driven financing.
Zambia, for LDCs, said the draft governing instrument provides sufficient basis for a financial institutional arrangement.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said agreement under the AWG-KP should be part of a comprehensive outcome, including the AWG-LCA.
Argentina, supported by Mauritius, preferred a pilot phase without a credit system so that trust could be built among partners in the Convention.
The EU stressed that non-permanence reversals require compensation, while Tuvalu suggested that current rules may be functioning and the lack of projects may reflect unwillingness of credit purchasers to bear the risk of reversals.
Norway, Iceland, New Zealand, Switzerland, Uganda and the Russian Federation agreed that a workshop to explore options would be useful.
On a paragraph with three options relating to communication of INDCs, including their scope, Algeria, for the Arab Group, proposed its deletion.
Sweden, for the EU, underlined that in Copenhagen parties have to reach a legally-binding agreement that includes all nations, embraces the target of limiting temperature increase to below 2°C, sets out ambitious emission reduction targets and scales up public and private finance.
Colombia, for AILAC, said the section on general/objective should include a global goal, to be operationalized in relevant sections of the agreement.
Jato Sillah, Minister of Forestry and the Environment, the Gambia, for LDCs, emphasized the plight of the poorest nations that are suffering from extreme weather events and internal migrations due to the effects of climate change, wondering how some parties can propose delaying action until 2015 or later.
Describing offsetting as “a good deal for the atmosphere,” the EU, with Norway, proposed a technical workshop to quantify the impacts of the different mechanisms.
ARGENTINA and BANGLADESH emphasized the importance of food security.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for a better reflection of enhancing the Convention’s implementation and said that the scope was too prescriptive.
Bolivia, for ALBA, reminded that work under APA should reflect the comprehensive vision of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
CAMBODIA urged for mechanisms that benefit LDCs.
On the draft conclusions, China, supported by Japan, India, Malaysia and Botswana, highlighted the importance of building endogenous capacity in developing countries.
The EU reiterated that all countries, excluding the LDCs, should contribute to financing, at least domestically.
Position papers on this issue were introduced by the Umbrella Group, EU and G-77/China, and Parties agreed that the Co-Chairs would prepare a consolidated text incorporating these papers for consideration Saturday morning.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, said the issue of timing and procedures for entry into force of Protocol amendments should be discussed, in order to ensure there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
The EU, NORWAY, DENMARK, COLOMBIA and ENVIRONMENTAL NGOs stressed links to other conventions, including those on biodiversity and desertification.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA supported discussing the actions of all parties, not just of Annex B parties.
On the COP/MOP rules, Norway and the US emphasized that institutional responsibilities be part of the COP-6 decision.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said progress was “mixed” across thematic areas and asked that lost time be made up with a spirit of urgency.
BURKINA FASO and BENIN noted the need to request additional details and establish precise criteria before consideration of the issue.
Highlighting that the proposal could be an “attractive compromise" for many parties, VENEZUELA suggested language requesting that “the Secretariat, under their own responsibility, prepare an informal technical paper.” SAUDI ARABIA, with OMAN, KUWAIT and QATAR, opposed the proposal for a technical paper and encouraged forwarding the item to future sessions.
 Debate ensued on language in a paragraph requesting “the executive secretary in the course of implementing the programme budget to make every effort to ensure that support to developing countries and other key areas of work in the proposed programme budget is not affected.” The EU, supported by the US, suggested deleting “ensure that” and inserting “provide sufficient support.” The G-77/CHINA clarified that it had accepted the lower budget proposal on the condition that developing country activities were not implicated.
e2 80 9d The EU, supported by NORWAY, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, and ANTINGUA AND BARBUDA, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested adding to the US proposal e2 80 9cincluding in the ADP.
Indonesia, Norway, Australia, the EU and others also supported that the COP facilitate implementation of the Copenhagen Accord under Convention Article 7.2.
Opposing India’s proposal, AUSTRALIA cautioned against extending Convention Article 3.5 .
On the way forward, in particular in relation to the work of the AWG-LCA, Spain, for the EU, supported by NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and JAPAN, urged for text reiterating the need for a coherent approach between the Convention and Protocol in relation to commitments by Annex I parties, as agreed by AWG-KP 6 .
  During this session, panelists reflected on: the United Arab Emirates e2 80 99 renewable energy strategies; a Brazilian technology that produces sugar ethanol that is seven times less polluting than traditional ethanol; the role of a long-term policy framework, including a US$130/ton carbon tax and an electricity certificate scheme in Sweden in increasing the renewable energy share to over 50%; and the increasingly strong business case for renewable energy investment.
Trinidad and Tobago, Saint Lucia, Mali, Tanzania, Grenada, the Bahamas, the Maldives, Venezuela and Zimbabwe called for reference to loss and damage in the outline, noting the issue’s relevance for policymakers.
CANADA, the EU, NORWAY, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the importance of issues addressed in this paragraph, and favored retaining it in some form.
Burkina Faso, on behalf of the African Group, suggested holding a workshop for African Parties on the Special Report and underscored links between land degradation and sequestration.
Noting that the GCF capitalization resulted from the Cancun Agreements, the LDCs, with MALAYSIA, emphasized the need for a process on financial contributions beyond 2020.
Regarding health benefits of climate change in some cold areas, the US, opposed by Germany, suggested referring to industrialized areas instead of temperate areas since the studies refer only to industrialized areas, or else adding some words in relation to limitations in the data.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized improving and extending TEMs until the mitigation ambition gap is closed, and indicated their outputs should include: updated technical papers; a dynamic online e2 80 9cmenu e2 80 9d of policy options; focus on co-benefits of actions, barriers to implementation and strategies to overcome them; and a synthesis for policy makers.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by TURKEY, BELARUS and KAZAKHSTAN, proposed also deleting option 1, which states that Article 3.7ter is not applicable in the second commitment period of parties that did not have QELRCs during the first commitment period.
Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan supported this proposal, while Saudi Arabia opposed it.
CHINA suggested that each Party should focus on promoting public awareness on the IPCC TAR, and MAURITIUS said Article 6 implementation should take place at the grassroots level in both developed and developing countries.
In opening statements, the EU stressed the need to operationalize the Adaptation Fund and strengthen the capacities of LDCs to implement CDM projects.
The EU, supported by JAPAN and the US, proposed de-coupling the workshop with the COP-5 process, noting that there will be too many competing responsibilities.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the need for political decisions and flexibility.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the COP Presidency had pledged to undertake consultations with all parties on Article 9.5 and requested that plenary adjourn until consultations were complete.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, TUVALU, NEW ZEALAND and others supported addressing sectoral approaches in the AWGLCA.
94 The US, Saudi Arabia and China opposed.
CANADA and the EU proposed the removal of specific percentages, as a compromise.
Regarding financing for the readiness activities phase, Papua New Guinea, Guyana, Indonesia and Norway called for a three-phased approach to REDD-plus that would move it from a fund-based to market mechanism.
China proposed, and WGIII agreed to, a footnote indicating that the use of Purchasing Power Parity in describing the difference in per capita income among countries is used “for illustrative purposes only for this report.” India underscored the need for language to protect the right of developing countries to keep developing, and delegates decided to refer to both direct and indirect emissions from electricity in the industry and building sectors.
 The US, supported by New Zealand, thought further discussion was necessary.
SAUDI ARABIA opposed differentiating among developing countries, while SWITZERLAND proposed a global carbon tax.
TUVALU said he would like to see the concerns of SIDS and LDCs reflected in the draft.
The US, with Australia, supported doing this at COP-8, underscoring the relevant COP-5 decision that had scheduled this for COP-7, and stressed that it was not acceptable to postpone this for more than one year.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for guidance that addresses the diversity of NDCs, and is voluntary and not prescriptive.
Switzerland noted the importance of the presence of the IPCC at UNFCCC meetings and asked how the Panel will take part in the November UNFCCC meeting in Barcelona, Spain.
SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA and CANADA supported the Co-Chairs issuing a revised draft text taking account of views expressed at this meeting.
The Netherlands suggested changing the term to “low-income” countries but Peru responded that no “low-income” category exists in IPCC procedures.
The EU, ICELAND and NORWAY, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, emphasized the importance of a “shared vision.” SWITZERLAND proposed making reference to the Chair’s list annexed to AWG 1’s conclusions, and referring to Convention Article 2 and the treatment of LULUCF.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, US, AOSIS and NEW ZEALAND noted that while the text did not serve all their interests, they supported its use as the basis for negotiation.
EGYPT, with VENEZUELA and BOLIVIA, proposed preparing a table with the attribution of paragraphs in the consolidated text, which will be made available to parties before the next meeting on Tuesday.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the need for progress under the Nairobi Work Programme ; and addressing agriculture to enhance food security and build resilience.
Belize, for CARICOM, supported five-year cycles, with the first cycle beginning in 2020.
SWITZERLAND, with NORWAY, JAPAN, SLOVENIA, the EU, the US, AUSTRALIA and COLOMBIA, contended that the AIJ pilot phase provides lessons for the flexibility mechanisms.
Norway, opposed by Mexico, suggested its deletion, saying the issue was captured elsewhere.
On mitigation under the AWG-LCA, one of the most problematic and political questions is related to proposals by the US, Australia and the other Umbrella Group countries for a framework on mitigation for all parties.
Opposing the establishment of a spin-off group on adaptation, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, the EU and other developed countries pointed to progress and current work under other bodies on, inter alia, the Adaptation Committee, and loss and damage.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, described its proposed framework on technology development and transfer.
SOUTH AFRICA said the EU’s 30% emission reduction target by 2020 was not sufficiently ambitious and questioned the scientific basis for a 15-30% deviation from business-as-usual for developing countries by 2020.
Guatemala, for AILAC, was encouraged by the references to long-term approaches.
On submissions, AUSTRALIA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by a number of Parties, suggested the deletion of the possibility for a Party to submit a question of implementation with respect to another Party, explaining that it had the potential to create rifts among Parties or could eventually be used for "other reasons," and that the reports from expert review teams  provided a thorough triggering process.
South Africa, supported by Algeria, proposed amending the decision to include reference to adoption of amendments pursuant to Protocol Article 3.9.
CHINA, with GRENADA, expressed concern that, by calling for ambitious sectoral targets in developing countries, developed countries are stepping away from their obligation to reduce their emissions.
Argentina, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, called for ambition and a balance between mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
On Saturday, 8 June, Brazil, on behalf of the G-77/China, stressed links between work on the pending parts of Articles 7 and 8 and outcomes from the group on LULUCF under the CDM.
Norway, Switzerland, Canada, Japan and the EU, opposed by India, Brazil, Barbados and China, requested the option to provide further submissions on the operational priorities of the Fund at SBI-18.
Bangladesh, with China and Thailand, emphasized the importance of international cooperation and bilateral collaboration in capacity building for impact and vulnerability assessments.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA, suggested differentiating between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
94 Jamaica, speaking for the G-77/China, congratulated delegates on resolving issues such as non-Annex I national communications, but expressed 93extreme disappointment 94 at lack of progress on the SCCF.
Supported by CANADA and the US, he opposed quantitative ceilings for reductions achieved through the flexibility mechanisms, noting that there was no ceiling on transfers of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 4 .
Lamenting that, in the first week, the text had been reopened for new insertions, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed readiness to engage with the COP Presidency and looked forward to a “fair process that will take us to a fair outcome.”
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for public registries to provide accessible information on parties’ NDCs, and suggested linking the adaptation communications and NDC registries.
Australia and New Zealand said this issue cannot be clarified at this time, since it depends on the legal and methodological context.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by THAILAND, SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN, COLOMBIA, MALAYSIA, NICARAGUA, HONDURAS, SYRIA, GHANA, TOGO, LAOS, KUWAIT, GRENADA, BOTSWANA, BAHRAIN, MALI, CHILE, PERU, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, NIGERIA, BANGLADESH, KENYA, MOROCCO, ZIMBABWE, INDONESIA, URUGUAY, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, PHILIPPINES, VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA, GAMBIA, ARGENTINA, and SOUTH AFRICA on behalf of Southern African Development Community , said equity and common but differentiated responsibility are keys to success.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed that transparency of mitigation commitments must be as robust as those under the Kyoto Protocol and be understood before their adoption.
The Marshall Islands and Saint Kitts and Nevis, opposed by the Netherlands and the Republic of Korea, suggested deleting a sentence referring to the significance for the carbon budget of defining global warming in terms of either global mean air temperature or GMST, given the potential for confusion.
He said some developed countries, particularly the US, have not included binding measures in their proposals and emphasized the EU’s conviction that P&amp;Ms should be included to fully encompass the Berlin Mandate and Geneva Declaration.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, and Algeria, for the African Group, stated that the AWGLCA should focus on enhancing implementation of existing commitments under the Convention and Protocol, and stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
The EU, with JAPAN and the US, suggested deletion of the whole paragraph if it lacks agreement.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said assistance should be provided through existing mechanisms, called for a legally-binding regime applicable to all parties, and stressed the need to update the existing regime in line with 21st century realities.
Hiro Kazuno, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, presented examples of Australia, Japan and the US supporting adaptation measures.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA expressed support for the second alternative, and noted the AOSIS position highlighting, inter alia, best available science, urgency and impacts on LDCs and SIDS as the benchmark.
Pakistan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , urged progress on the Adaptation Fund, and called for progress on Kyoto Protocol Articles 2.3  and 3.14 , the Buenos Aires Programme of Work, capacity building, and funding.
The Russian Federation, supported by the EU, China and Kuwait, said this proposal was unacceptable.
The EU, Papua New Guinea and Colombia called for consideration of the relationship of permanence and leakage with operational language.
 CHINA said policies and frameworks are not technological issues, while the EU argued that they are related to barriers and deployment.
On paragraph 89 on the Financial Mechanism, PANAMA, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested moving text on the SCF to paragraph 90 on new institutional arrangements.
CHINA, supported by NIGERIA, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC, OMAN and BRAZIL, stressed the need to mobilize funding for the Adaptation Fund.
On leakage, JAPAN, with CANADA and INDIA, opposed by TUVALU, BRAZIL and the EU, supported exempting leakage because of monitoring costs and the unlikelihood of major impact, given the small size of projects.
 On Tuesday, 1 December, on the joint proposal by Papua New Guinea and Mexico on Convention Articles 17 and 18 , Vice-President Sylla noted that informal consultations had not been able to resolve divergent views, and the item was forwarded to COP 22.
He said imposing sanctions on India and Pakistan would make it more difficult for them to switch.
NORWAY supported discussion of bunker fuels and suggested using the new submission by the Cook Islands  to bridge gaps on this issue.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, discussed the need for: information on spillover effects; efforts that avoid and reduce negative consequences; and measures that enhance resilience.
The EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and JAPAN opposed this insertion, noting that work on the CRF had been finalized.
Spain, for the EU, with AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the GAMBIA and others, called for the consideration of bunker fuels.
The Gambia said working through a single contact group would be difficult in terms of prioritizing issues and Saudi Arabia questioned how various topics, such as the flexibility mechanisms and LULUCF, would be discussed in a single contact group.
On a paragraph noting that the IPCC TAR provides information with long-term relevance in the context of the UNFCCC ef bf bds ultimate objective, MALAYSIA, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested deleting a sentence on the need to explore the balance between mitigation and adaptation, while CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA suggested removing the entire paragraph.
France, on behalf of the EU, asked about the criteria for choosing the projects to be presented at the next GEF council meeting, and possible tools for GEF action on climate change.
BRAZIL, supported by the GAMBIA, highlighted CCS as a nationally appropriate mitigation action but opposed it under the CDM.
SBSTA Chair Benrageb commended participants for their hard work and commitment during the seminar and thanked the government of Trinidad and Tobago and the UNFCCC Secretariat.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the US and JAPAN said the MRV system should be applicable to all, with some in-built flexibility to respond to national circumstances.
On promoting understanding of climate risks, key vulnerabilities and thresholds of climate change, Austria, opposed by Brazil and Peru, proposed including reference to forests.
On Friday, the Netherlands, supported by Norway, called for including both annual and cumulative emissions.
ARGENTINA, supported by CHINA, and opposed by the EU and the US, suggested unilateral measures could be a cross-cutting issue in response measures.
The two key bodies under the Bali Roadmap are the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP, which held four negotiating sessions in 2008: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, and opposed by BRAZIL, TUVALU and others, suggested assuming zero emissions or removals for cases of soil carbon saturation in cropland management.
Poland, Estonia and Hungary reserved their right to revisit this decision in Berlin.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for coordination and consistency with other agreements, such as ICAO’s Carbon Offset and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, and suggested dialogues in the form of workshops or contact groups.
SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of the ARABIAN COUNTRIES GROUP, said non-compliance with Article 3.14 should also lead to suspension of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms and a financial penalty paid to a compensation fund.
Saudi Arabia, with Samoa, suggested that the election of members be based on "equal representation of the five UN regional groups."
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and BRAZIL, observed that the Durban decision defines the scope and modalities of the Review, and that the scope includes not just the temperature goal but also the adequacy of means of implementation for developing countries.
Calling for technical progress not to be threatened by political discussions under the APA contact group, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for evening sessions to allow for experts from groups with interlinkages to participate in negotiations.
On sources of finance, Norway, Switzerland, Canada and the US suggested highlighting a variety of sources.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by IRAQ, expressed concern that response measures have not received as much attention as mitigation.
On  , the EU, opposed by Argentina and Venezuela, and supported by New Zealand and others, proposed a paragraph establishing new market-based mechanisms.
The US preferred not having a preamble, while the EU called for preambular discussion to be put to the side.
Supported by Norway, the EU reiterated a step-wise approach that couples nationally-driven approaches with international coordination.
Venezuela, for ALBA, identified difficulties with working on the basis of the AWG-LCA’s text, saying its development has been disproportionate and unbalanced.
  BELARUS, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, lamented that Belarus had not yet been included in Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol, and requested support for including their Joint Implementation projects on the UNFCCC website before the adopted amendment to Protocol Annex B comes into force.
Indonesia said his country has no objection to using existing institutions if they are reformed and, with Bangladesh, preferred the establishment of a flexible and efficient single fund with multiple windows.
The US noted that the EU collectively argued in 1990 that they would reduce emissions drastically.
 In opening Thursday morning\'s Plenary, the INC Chair reported that the Eastern European Group has nominated the Russian Federation and Hungary and the Asian Group has nominated India and Japan for positions on the COP Bureau.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA highlighted their intention to provide specific comments on the non-paper later, with the EU stressing the need to provide the opportunity for such specific comments and to go through the text paragraph-by-paragraph.
Mali, for the African Group, stressed the need to start substantive discussions on the modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilized through public interventions and welcomed progress on agriculture.
The US, supported by Norway and Canada and opposed by Panama, for the CfRN, requested removing a reference to the Warsaw Framework for REDD+, saying it is not a body under the Convention.
AOSIS and Tuvalu opposed discussing impacts of response measures under adaptation, stressing the issue is addressed under mitigation.
The EU, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, added that if the information on the initial AA is put in the registries by the Secretariat, instead of by the Parties, there is no need for such a review.
Switzerland, with Indonesia, suggested accommodating disasters in the outline, with the US opposing this and Co-Chair Field assuring that extremes and disasters would not be lost in the report.
On the Overall Approach, the G-77/CHINA proposed Agenda 21 language on technology transfer, while the US preferred language from FCCC Article 4.5.
Turkey and Belarus proposed a reference to special circumstances of parties, including countries with economies in transition.
Norway and others reiterated that national adaptation plans should only apply to the LDCs.
CHINA, INDIA and BOLIVIA stressed the need to consider developed countries’ historical responsibility.
NEW ZEALAND observed the structure of the section could be clarified, and noted, with the EU, the link between the sections in the negotiating text on time frames and mitigation.
Jamaica, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , stressed international action on climate change and its linkages with the Millennium Development Goals.
Yassmin Abdelaziz, Minister of Environment, Egypt, reported from open-ended consultations on finance, co-facilitated with Jochen Flasbarth, State Secretary Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, and Nuclear Safety, Germany.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stated the group’s expectations for a party-driven and inclusive process.
NORWAY and MEXICO noted that their proposals on financing arrangements should be reflected in full.
SENEGAL, supported by MICRONESIA, called for reference to capacity building.
Group I was facilitated by Carlos Fuller, Belize, with El Hadji Mbaye Madien Diagne, Senegal, acting as rapporteur.
 Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group and supported by the International Emissions Trading Association , proposed an assessment of the CDM by COP/MOP 4.
MOROCCO and ARGENTINA stressed the need for project approval by both partner governments.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said text on providing finance, technology and capacity building should be specific to LDCs.
TFI Co-Chair Krug thanked the Netherlands for agreeing to jointly organize the workshop in Brazil.
On a preambular paragraph on strengthening and scaling up adaptation action, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by EGYPT, suggested adding references to the elements of Decision 1/CP.17  and vulnerability of developing countries.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, identified possible sources of funding such as a Convention fund, a levy on international air travel, and an international fuel levy.
On a request to the GEF to increase its support to capacity-building activities in developing countries, the EU, supported by the US, JAPAN and others, suggested bracketing “increase” and proposed, instead, reference to “continue to provide financial support.” Noting the increasing need for support for capacity building activities, the G-77/CHINA opposed.
On a new paragraph noting the need for a more coordinated research approach to address cross-cutting issues, India, Malaysia and China, opposed by the EU, Russian Federation, Norway and Switzerland, proposed deleting reference to the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations.
ZAMBIA questioned whether the designated financial mechanism is able to respond to the urgent and immediate adaptation needs of LDCs.
The EU agreed with Bolivia on the importance of proper accounting and expressed interest in better understanding discrepancies in offset figures.
The EU, Poland, Switzerland and the G-77/China urged that the terms of reference be considered at SBSTA-13, while Australia, Canada, Japan and the US proposed consideration after COP-6.
Tuvalu, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States , highlighted the need for strong linkages with the 10-year review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States  and the World Conference on Disaster Reduction , both to be held in January 2005, and emphasized the importance of dialogue on adaptation.
JAPAN, supported by CANADA, announced the tabling of a draft proposal by the Umbrella Group on the creation of a new "window" in GEF to channel funding for the issues discussed in "Box A"; the streamlining of the GEF; and special consideration for LDCs and SIDS.
On the consequences of non-compliance, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US said the term 93consequence 94 could be replaced by 93outcome, 94 in order to better reflect the possible use of facilitative measures.
YEMEN, COSTA RICA, PERU and the PHILIPPINES urged Parties who have not yet done so to ratify the Protocol.
New Zealand and the US preferred Alternative A but were flexible on either a 2/3 or 3/4 majority.
Zimbabwe, for the Africa Group, called for increased support for adaptation projects.
Responding to the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 question on the next steps, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the group e2 80 99s ongoing work on a proposal on the way forward and asked for time to consult within the group.
POLAND supported the statement made by the Russian Federation, and stated that the AGBM should ask SBSTA to analyze national policy actions based on national communications and OECD/IEA work.
The EU and NORWAY said the text would help to highlight areas of disagreement.
SUDAN and BOLIVIA questioned market-based approaches.
Regarding a sentence stating that    implies a limit for future cumulative CO2 emissions, Saudi Arabia and Australia, opposed by Germany, France, the US, Spain, Saint Lucia and others, preferred referring to emissions from all GHGs.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for funding for project development and training local experts.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait urged caution in accepting new commitments.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said there was insufficient time to negotiate differentiation.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted adaptation and technology transfer, the AWG and the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments.
 Greenpeace, for the Climate Action Network, criticized some negotiators for undermining the Bali process, called for climate justice, and challenged Indonesia to end deforestation and embark on an energy revolution.
The EU expressed concern that using multiple base years would require a Protocol amendment, as several provisions, including Protocol Articles 3.5 and 3.7, refer to “1990” rather than to “base year.” AUSTRALIA noted that multiple base years present challenges in the calculation of AAUs.
On sequestration, CANADA, supported by NORWAY and IRAN, proposed addressing this under project eligibility.
CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and ALGERIA stressed the AWG-KP’s mandate and the need to limit discussions to Annex I countries.
BARBADOS said data gathering should not be used as an excuse to avoid instituting an insurance system, with TUVALU cautioning against an “endless assessment process.” The GAMBIA cautioned against maladaptation due to lack of planning, and AUSTRALIA noted potential disincentives for risk reduction resulting from insurance.
On a reference to seasons in a sentence on variations in warming levels, Kenya and Nicaragua noted that many countries do not experience seasons.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized that the Copenhagen outcome will be negotiated under the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP.
Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China , said MRV of support is also being discussed in the ADP and called for: coherence and coordination; clarity on the level of financial support to developing countries; guidance on the third forum of the SCF; and finance for forests.
In line with the BASIC-plus approach, representatives from Algeria, Egypt, Fiji, Nepal and Qatar participated in the meeting as observers.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed the need to resolve all outstanding issues in Bonn.
China, Brazil and Malaysia wanted to delete paragraph 1, establishing a consultative mechanism with international business, because it is beyond the intergovernmental scope of the Convention.
On SRs, Norway, supported by Belgium, Brazil, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and South Africa, proposed that identification of SRs should begin as early as possible and, as feasible, be done in the context of all deliverables of the cycle.
 After hearing the report on the workshop, India and Saudi Arabia opposed further consideration of the Russian proposal.
Australia, on behalf of the Umbrella Group, said that building “permanent homes” for finance, technology and capacity building has been no small feat, and emphasized that this work will continue through the newly established mechanisms.
The EU and Canada supported requesting the Secretariat to develop a technical paper, containing a compilation of existing guidance on adaptation communications.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, stated their understanding of the decision, including that reference to the Warsaw Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the preambular paragraph, and the reference to “inter alia” in paragraph 2 of the decision, represented “a clear intention” that the 2015 agreement will “properly, effectively and progressively address loss and damage.”
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and BOLIVIA, stressed reference to non-market-based mechanisms.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported by the EU, suggested reference to Paragraph 11 of the draft text .
Brazil, the EU and others stressed that this was an issue to be considered under the UNFCCC.
  On Thursday, Germany and Norway supported changing the chapter title to “Climate Finance and Financial Flows,” while the Netherlands, supported by the EU and Norway, suggested including “Investment” in the title and including a bullet point on enabling environments for financial investment and flows.
Australia and New Zealand noted a lack of a representative from the South-West Pacific region on the WG III Bureau, and suggested this, too, should be addressed if the proposal from Saudi Arabia is accepted.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that the text respects the Convention’s provisions and principles.
Japan noted the limited time before COP 11 and, with China, urged prioritizing actions relating to the programme of work.
INDIA opposed the concept of national schedules of mitigation commitments and actions, and BRAZIL said that the concept, by combining a reference to commitments and actions, weakens commitments by developed countries.
During the SBSTA closing plenary on 9 June, Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that he could not accept the proposed SBSTA conclusions.
BOTSWANA stressed the need for adequate time for notifying and inviting the experts, and, supported by CHINA, stressed the need for regional distribution of experts.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, stressed that discussions under the ADP must be party-driven, fully inclusive and transparent, and that the outcome should be in accordance with equity and the CBDR principle.
The US, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Cuba, China and others opposed reducing expert and government review periods from eight weeks to six weeks in the AR6 cycle.
Nafie Ali Nafie, Assistant President of Sudan, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to maintain a two-track outcome under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol on the basis of comparable and ambitious emission reductions, and respect the Convention’s principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, expressed disappointment with the slow pace of negotiations on key issues, in particular on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
MALAYSIA and INDONESIA supported a two-track process and continuing the Dialogue.
AUSTRIA, supported by BELGIUM, suggested noting that the percentages in this section were calculated under the assumption that leakage does not occur, while the UK, with AUSTRIA, proposed mentioning ef bf bdsecure storage ef bf bd instead of ef bf bdleakage.
The Russian Federation, opposed by New Zealand, preferred 93to obtain the approval.
Several parties, including the EU and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, requested information on the performance reviews of the interim secretariat and trustee servicing the AF, and on the annual report by the Adaptation Fund Board .
AOSIS, Argentina, for the G-77/China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, Colombia, for a number of Latin American countries, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, India, Singapore, China and Venezuela emphasized that the Durban outcome must include a decision to establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for focusing on parties willing to enter into a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period and exploring whether and how their conditionalities have been met or can be met.
Regarding allocation of questions, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by SAMOA, suggested that guidelines be formulated to aid allocation.
SWITZERLAND said the spin-off groups should have a mandate to make progress on text and INDIA said any technical discussions need to be in the context of the political context set at Cancun.
PAKISTAN requested Parties to delete Turkey from Annexes I and II.
The US suggested specifying adequate “technical and administrative” support, with Dominica adding “financial” to that list.
The US, AUSTRALIA and the EU urged Parties to prioritize observatory systems and highlighted the deteriorating conditions of the systems in use.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, some Annex I Parties, including Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the Russian Federation, did not join the consensus.
Underscoring the importance of the wider context, the EU, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND called for a factual and balanced representation of the views presented at the workshop.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the outcomes on NDCs, adaptation, the transparency framework, the GST, and finance and means of implementation.
Clarifying her understanding of differentiation, Australia, with the EU, noted that a genuine aggregate review should include all parties.
On REDD+, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, called for distinct treatment of NAMAs and REDD+, and called for a detailed article on REDD+ in a future agreement.
Many countries, including Iran, Zimbabwe, Kenya and the US, expressed their appreciation to COP/MOP President Espinosa for her leadership and the manner in which the process had been conducted.
 In the afternoon, Trinidad and Tobago suggested additional language for paragraph 1, on comments made at INC-11, referring to statements by a majority of Annex I Parties acknowledging the inadequacy of their commitments.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, emphasized the role of adaptation communications in assessing scale of needs and supporting an effective global stocktake.
 On the confidence level, China, opposed by Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the US, Belgium, Canada and Spain, said the information the 445-535 ppm stabilization scenario did not support a “much evidence” confidence statement on language stating that the estimated costs of mitigation are between a 3% decrease of GDP and a small increase.
Egypt, for the Group of 77 and China , stressed the need for balance between action and support, and urged reasonable comparability across issues, “leaving no issue behind.” He noted that finance could “unlock” other issues, and called for upholding common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities  in the outcome.
 MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA and the PHILIPPINES, said that including elements outside the Berlin Mandate in the framework compilation will sidetrack negotiations and suggested specifying that the compilation should be based on the Berlin Mandate.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for an AWG-LCA outcome in Doha to be in line with the Bali Action Plan and decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
In response, the US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, suggested the contact group address four questions: what type of decision should be made, when, by whom, and how it should move forward.
CANADA, with the US and EU, emphasized support for the GEF.
On separating natural effects from human-induced effects, Switzerland, opposed by Canada, supported a negotiated threshold to deal with the human-induced effects, which could also be adjusted to deal with issues of uncertainty and permanence.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, elaborated its proposal that, inter alia: builds on existing mechanisms; safeguards vulnerable countries, including LDCs and SIDS; and reflects changing scientific information.
China, opposed by New Zealand, Norway, Belgium and others, expressed reservations on language that greenhouse gas emissions will continue to grow “significantly.” These issues were solved in the final SPM by indicating that with current mitigation policies “and related sustainable development practices, emissions will continue to grow over the next few decades.”
President Alsogaray announced the receipt of national communications from Armenia, Kazakstan and Indonesia and the signature of the Kyoto Protocol by the US.
The EU, with NEW ZEALAND and opposed by CHINA, MALAYSIA and BHUTAN, supported including the promotion of natural regeneration within the definitions of "afforestation" and "reforestation."
SWEDEN supported considering the suggestions by Iran and Zimbabwe and involving developing countries in research and development efforts.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, called for: new and additional financial resources; direct and easy access; and support for setting up national implementing entities.
The US and Canada emphasized concerns with quantitative caps.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that the text would benefit from further technical work and that some core issues in the AWG-KP will require consultations at the political level.
Supporting Singapore, Saudi Arabia added that any country’s contribution “is, has been and will be nationally driven.”
 Josef Pr f6ll, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Austria, emphasized that climate change is already a 93harsh reality 94 and indicated that the EU is prepared to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 provided that other industrialized countries take commitments and that economically advanced developing countries contribute adequately.
 SWITZERLAND, supported by MALI, called for a dynamic approach and proposed three categories of commitment.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of Peru and Guatemala, proposed that representatives of the COP, possibly through the Standing Committee and the GCF Board work on drafting the arrangements to complete work by COP 19.
Papua New Guinea asked the US to 93get out of the way 94 if it was not willing to lead.
Belize agreed with Costa Rica and Chile.
On the identification of "possible" adverse effects and "possible" impacts, the US, supported by the EU, deleted references to "possible".
The US, with Australia, Finland and others, suggested that terms be slightly overlapping to allow the Chair and Co-Chairs to be involved in the work of dissemination and providing feedback on the process.
Algeria, supported by Egypt, Togo, Nigeria and Morocco, stressed Africa’s special vulnerability to climate change impacts, and the region’s need for capacity development.
The US supported the Manual serving as a repository of decisions, while the EU urged that it be of a technical nature.
The G-77/China, Pakistan, the African Group, Saudi Arabia, China and India expressed reservations with the Mexican proposal.
 On the emergence of other effects of regional climate change on natural and human environments, the US, opposed by the Netherlands, proposed removing  93natural.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported progress on the Adaptation Fund, technology transfer, and response measures.
On   , Canada, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, called for less focus on barriers, adding text on enabling environments.
Brazil, opposed by Australia and the Russian Federation, supported distinguishing between facilitation available to Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
 On Tuesday, delegates discussed, inter alia, Saudi Arabia’s suggestion to include a reference to CO2 “utilization” in this definition, with Switzerland highlighting interesting developments in this field, and the EU and the Netherlands cautioning that there is no guarantee that such utilization will lead to long-term removal.
The EU, Ireland and Germany opposed, to ensure political neutrality and avoid being policy prescriptive.
The EU, opposed by the US, questioned the need for the section on reporting on domestic enforcement.
China and Brazil suggested only considering afforestation and reforestation under the CDM.
Uganda, on behalf of the LDCs, requested inclusion of a fourth paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a workshop to identify the specific needs of LDCs related to, inter alia, capacity building and adaptation.
The EU, supported by NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others, reiterated the importance of fixing LULUCF rules before agreement on further commitments.
TUVALU, supported by COLOMBIA, noted the need to consider how LULUCF fits into the proposed new protocols, while the EU, CANADA and AUSTRALIA expressed concern with discussions of legal issues in this group.
The SBI addressed: Annex I national communications; the financial mechanism; capacity-building; a request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova  regarding their status under the UNFCCC; administrative and financial matters; a proposal by Croatia on land use, land-use change and forestry ; and administrative and financial matters.
CANADA, the EU and NORWAY sought clarification on elections of alternate Executive Board members.
  On Thursday, Ireland and Mali welcomed the inclusion of this chapter as per their request.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, opposed a paragraph stating that COP 23 will address the need for procedural clarity regarding draft decisions at CMA 1 relating to the response measures forum and recognition of adaptation efforts.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, mentioned four necessary elements for the agenda: structure and possible elements for the contents of the Protocol; methodology on drafting the Protocol; consideration of the inputs received; and, further work for the AGBM, such as setting deadlines for proposed inputs on objectives and time horizons.
 CHINA and the PHILIPPINES proposed retaining sub-item  as is.
CHINA, with CHILE, emphasized that action from developing countries should be carried out within the framework of sustainable development and requires financial and technological support from developed countries.
Gabon, for the African Group, supported by India, proposed an oral amendment to add a reference requesting that ICAO and IMO report on support provided to developing countries.
 SAMOA recalled the AOSIS Protocol, which was supported by over 70 Parties at COP-1, and said that the AGBM should consider how the elements - of the BM might feature in a protocol.
The EU, with the US and Norway, proposed that the Co-Chairs work on specific decision language for consideration by the group.
CANADA and NORWAY noted their preference for Option A, saying the uncertainties are overdrawn.
INDIA, the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA and AOSIS stated that the private sector can play only a limited role.
NORWAY and BRAZIL suggested markets be anchored in the agreement, while details on markets be expressed in decisions.
Switzerland and the US expressed their preference for suspending rather than closing the APA session.
The Philippines, opposed by Brazil, suggested removing reference to factoring out emissions that would otherwise occur in the absence of flooded lands, yet, after a clarification by the TFI Co-Chairs that flooded lands are a unique category where multiple approaches can be used, he withdrew the proposal.
Zimbabwe and Ecuador recommended linking gender to other considerations, such as the IPCC Scholarship Programme, and participation of developing countries and women in climate science, to ensure that IPCC quality is not compromised.
Benin, supported by Tanzania, said that when women participate and contribute ideas and solutions, organizations achieve better results.
However, the EU, US and other developed countries tended to favor the use of existing institutions to perform these functions.
The EU and Switzerland said their submissions on baselines for CDM applied to JI.
Australia, Slovenia, for the European Union , Norway, Samoa, for the Alliance of Small Island States , and others supported addressing all elements this year and called for considering all four building blocks at each session.
The G-77/China called for a signal on the CDM 92s continuity beyond 2012, but Japan and EU argued that this issue must be resolved in the Article 3.9 contact group.
The proposal was opposed by Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar.
Germany, supported by Japan, Sweden, and Belgium, requested details regarding the terms of reference for such external experts, and the budget implications.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need to channel the means of implementation into the institutional framework created at COP 16 in Cancun, highlighting provision of finance as a priority and observing that attracting private sector funding for adaptation has been difficult.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said a clear definition of climate finance is lacking, and underscored the need for new and additional finance.
On international and national actions, international cooperative initiatives, and a thematic approach, the Umbrella Group and Brazil supported a bottom-up approach engaging and incentivizing various stakeholders in the thematic areas.
The US and CANADA suggested postponing consideration of the review of guidelines on national communications until SB-14.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION questioned proposals from the EU and others to change the order of the paragraphs.
On regional activities, noting the IPCC plenary has not convened in the Caribbean and Latin American region in recent times, Venezuela, supported by WGIII Vice-Chair Ramon Pichs-Madruga and Dominican Republic, called for better regional balance for IPCC events.
With the MARSHALL ISLANDS, BOTSWANA and SAMOA, he opposed linking AIJ to the Protocol mechanisms.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, urged for a “balanced text” that would be the basis for further negotiations.
The US, opposed by AOSIS, the EU and G-77/CHINA, requested removing agenda item 11 relating to small island developing States .
Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed proceeding on the basis of the provisional agenda .
KUWAIT, QATAR, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA and JAPAN expressed confidence that, as technical experts in the field of bunker fuels, ICAO and IMO are currently the best venues for addressing these issues.
AOSIS, the LDCs and COLOMBIA supported retaining it also in the context of COP/MOP decisions.
On the decision inviting international organizations to present a status report on their activities relating to P&amp;Ms, the US, supported by the EU and AUSTRALIA, proposed that this should be integrated within the decision requesting the Secretariat to support future work.
On  , the G-77/China and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for a shared vision for all the building blocks.
 FRANCE, supporting the EU, said that the TAP-M should develop common methodologies to assess cost-effectiveness and comparability of national policies.
The Russian Federation, supported by Belarus, called for adding a reference to translating the text into all official UNFCCC languages.
BRAZIL, supported by the G-77/CHINA, said the terminology was rather related to Protocol Article 3.1  and stated that it will submit a written proposal clarifying the terminology.
The section on minimization of adverse impacts under Article 3.14  was not agreed, with SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by JAPAN and others, suggesting that Parties "shall" rather than "are requested to" provide information.
Regarding the report on GHG inventory data for 1990–2007, China, for the G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, expressed concern at the trend of increase of GHG emissions in Annex I parties and suggested reflecting this concern in SBI conclusions.
Parties agreed to use an existing body, specifically the ADP under a new name, by “importing” its governance arrangements, particularly regarding the Bureau as proposed by Colombia, on behalf of the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean .
Several specific proposals for financing were made by countries including Mexico, Switzerland, Norway, China, and others.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said her group looks forward to the review of the Adaptation Fund and acknowledges its critical role for implementing adaptation projects.
He asked delegates to consider both the G-77 and China approach paper, contained in A/AC.237/Misc.40, and the submission made by the UK, contained in document FCCC/SB/1995/Misc.1.
When the G-77 and China could not endorse the Indian proposal, the meeting adjourned and, instead, India convened a meeting of like-minded States.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for adequate time for coordination during future sessions.
 In the afternoon plenary session, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and SWITZERLAND, requested that the compilation of governments ef bf bd comments on the 2006 Guidelines be made available to the plenary.
On incentivizing adaptation and creating enabling environments, BANGLADESH underlined the need to involve and incentivize the private sector and the US highlighted that recipient countries, not just donors, must play a role in providing incentives for adaptation.
COSTA RICA noted that a shared vision should be simple but profound in establishing the path forward, and CHILE said that it should communicate the parties’ political will to the public.
EGYPT and ALGERIA urged greater simplification of modalities and procedures.
He also demanded the immediate ratification of the Protocol by Australia, Canada, Russia, and the US.
AUSTRALIA and the US supported discussing the need for an expert group, but questioned the additional benefit of having such a group.
The US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA said Decision 3/CP.3, which specified the mandate of the contact group, did not require specific consideration of Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
Future decisions and processes: On future decisions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14, SWITZERLAND said it preferred one decision on both, while SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and other developing countries supported separate consideration and decisions, as Article 3.14 relates only to responsibilities of Annex I Parties.
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for progress from developed countries on converting pledges to economy-wide emission reduction targets and, with the Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern over the lack of clear projections for mid-term financing.
The Gambia, for the African Group, called for focusing on the core elements of the AWG-KP’s mandate on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual QELROs.
Egypt, for the African Group, said long-term climate finance should not be confined to US$100 billion annually and called for discussing a strategic approach to finance, including addressing sources, predictability, adequacy and stability, and ways to deliver the necessary scale of finance needed to stay below 2 c2 b0C.
The EU suggested that the legal and technical review carried out by the Secretariat as a result of delays in the intergovernmental process had not taken into account the document on guidance to the Fund and, with the US, Japan, and Norway, said developing guidance to the Fund should be considered at COP-8.
The PHILIPPINES and SWITZERLAND stressed ensuring that national experiences inform the framework for financing the full implementation of results-based actions in line with REDD+ safeguards.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , expressed support for achieving a draft of the agreement to be adopted in 2015 and further defining the tasks to be undertaken in 2015.
On taking stock of progress made by the subsidiary and constituted bodies, AILAC, the AFRICAN GROUP, the EU and the US called for beginning this stocktaking at COP 22.
On uncertainties, Canada, the EU and Uruguay supported the Marrakesh Accords.
This group of "Friends" was to consist of four members of the EU, four other OECD country representatives, two OPEC countries, two Eastern European countries, and the remaining delegates from the newly named "Group of 69."
BRAZIL, supported by NEW ZEALAND and others, called for recognition that “issues related to degradation may be relevant” and, with INDIA and others, underscored efforts in developing countries.
On coastal communities, Canada identified the need to be more specific than the US proposal and France emphasized hurricanes.
Micronesia, speaking for AOSIS and also speaking for Argentina, Benin, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Gambia, Guatemala, Ecuador, El Salvador, Kenya, Mozambique, Panama, Peru, Senegal, Togo and Uganda, highlighted scientific findings since the Fourth Assessment Report  by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , and urged stabilization at below 350 ppm.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said dimensions of the adaptation goal should be both quantitative and qualitative.
On elements of the 2015 agreement, the G-77/China, the LMDCs, the Arab Group and the African Group called for a shift in the working mode in Lima, with the LMDCs suggesting focused groups entering into e2 80 9cformal negotiations for drafting text on all core elements.
 Lech Kacyński, President of Poland, underscored the need to alleviate poverty and address climate change, and highlighted the EU’s leading role in combating climate change as one of the best expressions of solidarity.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, SAUDI ARABIA and others supported the inclusion of CCS under the CDM, while BRAZIL and others expressed reservations.
Honduras, for the Dominican Republic, Guatemala and El Salvador, stated that the NWP must continue to develop and evolve, and that its reform should involve work with indigenous peoples, local communities and lead to gender mainstreaming.
Benin, supported by Mali, suggested the SR begin by clearly defining the concepts of climate risks, extreme weather events and disasters.
TUVALU and ARGENTINA questioned whether a final decision on Article 3.4 was appropriate at COP-6.
Australia, supported by Japan, the US, New Zealand, Canada and the EU, noted convergence on information exchange and encouraged accomplishing this through existing mechanisms such as national communications.
CANADA, the GAMBIA, AUSTRALIA and the SOLOMON ISLANDS endorsed the LEG work programme.
Brazil called for a legally binding agreement, observing that “we are on the verge of approving the most important result after the Berlin Mandate,” while Egypt noted the need for clarity on the predictability, sustainability, additionality and transparency of support.
Egypt, for the African Group, underscored the need for substantial contributions from developed countries.
The AFRICAN GROUP highlighted a desire to avoid creating bureaucratic institutions, with MALAWI calling for arrangements that make adaptation funds more accessible.
Several alternative texts to the Co-Chairs 92 proposal were put forward by the EU and Umbrella Group, and discussed in the drafting group as well as in informal consultations.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for greater urgency appropriate to the scale of the challenge, especially in identifying a time frame for peaking of global emissions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported discussions on agriculture and adaptation, and welcomed the enhancement of environmental integrity and transparency on REDD+ and market- and non-market approaches.
The US, supported by India and the UK, cautioned against including averaged energy use per unit of GDP for Annex I and non-Annex I countries, suggesting that these numbers hide regional disparities.
PERU, RWANDA and GAMBIA called for concrete measures to support and enhance capacity in vulnerable countries, and MAURITIUS called for Parties to give practical meaning to technology transfer.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed a financial mechanism based on the principles, inter alia, of: direct access to funding, new and additional resources, and predictability.
Regarding text on carbon pools, TUVALU and the EU opposed inclusion of harvested wood products, while NORWAY supported their inclusion but noted that the issue would be discussed at SBSTA-14.
Tanzania and Luxembourg said that it was not clear how chapters four  and five  were distinct, while Morocco questioned if merging the chapters would be to the detriment of some parts of those chapters.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, supported an agreement on a second commitment period, the introduction of a REDD+ mechanism on a voluntary basis, and eliminating loopholes in the rules on LULUCF.
Kenya, for the African Group, opposed considering accounting, suggesting it is better placed under transparency.
Some developing countries, including Iran, Uganda, Kenya, Mali and Algeria, urged Annex I Parties to meet their commitments.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by KIRIBATI, MALAYSIA, NIGERIA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, THAILAND, INDIA and TANZANIA, said fulfillment of developing countries’ commitments depends on the provision of resources and technology transfer and is the basis for all negotiations, including AGBM discussions.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with AUSTRALIA, Vanuatu, for AOSIS, and the US, underlined the importance of feedback and guidance from the LEG.
NORWAY and CANADA suggested introducing their proposals for technical revisions in a contact group.
Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Oman, Egypt, Algeria, Qatar, Pakistan, Kuwait, and United Arab Emirates supported the additions.
ARGENTINA and CHINA called for work under the ICAO and IMO to reflect common but differentiated responsibilities , with CHINA also cautioning against regional or unilateral actions.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, underscored that all developing countries are vulnerable to the impacts of current and potential response measures.
Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on the work mandated in Durban, including on a science-based Review narrow in scope.
ECUADOR noted that text on REDD+ falls short of reflecting an ambitious outcome, especially regarding how to finance REDD+ efforts, while TURKEY highlighted that every party must “shoulder its share” of responsibility for combating climate change.
The LDCs, the EU, Costa Rica, Chile, Colombia and Peru encouraged developing countries to put forward NAMAs.
On Thursday, 4 June, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland and Ireland were assessed.
Madagascar and Niger supported the application of the ACMAD, noting its important capacity building role in the region.
The UK, opposed by Switzerland, proposed an alternative formulation that separates the impacts of taxes and charges from their implementation.
The Gambia, for LDCs, welcomed conclusions related to the Adaptation Fund.
Mexico said inter-linkages between adaptation and mitigation, renewed and reinforced collective commitments, national commitments, and adaptation finance should be reflected in the new “protocol.” She said monitoring and evaluation, and, with Norway, institutional arrangements should be addressed in COP decisions.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for data from Annex I countries to better understand the gap between their pledges and science.
JAPAN requested that the item be suspended, and SWITZERLAND noted that work could continue despite disagreement on some agenda items.
However, during consultations at COP/MOP 2, no consensus was reached on the way forward, with the Russian Federation and the Umbrella Group proposing adoption of a procedural COP/MOP decision to refer the matter to the SBI.
Algeria suggested that “adequate and predictable funding for adaptation” also be “additional.” The EU and Japan, opposed by Ecuador, considered specifying finance as “adequate and predictable” problematic.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by the ARAB GROUP who suggested deleting reference to “degrees” altogether, called for including a request for consideration of consistency with 1.5 c2 b0C scenarios.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of political clarity from Annex I parties concerning their willingness to commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
She thanked the UNFCCC Secretariat, UNDP Philippines, and the APN, as well as the Governments of Spain, Switzerland, and the US, for co-sponsoring this event.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/China, proposed that submitting data and information on HWP should explicitly apply to Annex I Parties.
Saudi Arabia and Bolivia cautioned against reopening discussion on issues already agreed upon, and stressed the need for balance between policy-relevant issues, involving sustainable development, adaptation and mitigation.
Sweden, for the European Union , noted that their pledge to reduce emissions by 30% from 1990 levels by 2020 is contingent on an international agreement.
The EU, Australia and Brazil expressed concern with using actual emissions as a starting point.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU and US said Parties should follow SBI Chair Estrada 92s request for a decision on process, not on substance.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, noted some positive steps forward.
Bangladesh, Brazil, the Gambia, Argentina, Nicaragua and Cuba supported deferring discussion of the item to the next SBSTA session.
CANADA and the US highlighted the importance of non-Annex I communications.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a global goal on adaptation.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, expressed concern at the slow disbursement of funds for the preparation of national adaptation programmes of action .
On  , Australia called for greater cooperation with relevant organizations such as the World Intellectual Property Organization and, with the US, noted that IPRs incentivize technology development.
 e2 80 a2 c2 a0 expresses appreciation to Belgium, Canada, Finland, Ireland and Norway for providing financial support to the LEG;
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed negotiating adaptation and mitigation matters in a balanced manner and ensuring a “package” can be reached by 2018.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the AOSIS draft protocol addresses gases other than CO2, calling for targets and timetables at the first meeting of protocol Parties.
In response to comments by SWEDEN and FINLAND on their translation of IPCC documents into their own languages, IPCC Secretary Christ urged countries to share such translations with the IPCC Secretariat.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said efforts to mitigate climate change must meet the highest standards of environmental integrity and that Annex I parties should report on all gases with high global warming potential.
 Malaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, said a COP decision should provide guidance on the review of EGTT; stressed that new approaches to technology transfer should be consistent with the objectives of the UNFCCC; recommended a high-level round table on technology cooperation and partnerships; and urged additional resources for EGTT.
The LMDCs, opposed by Japan, called for deleting references to provision of finance by “parties in a position to do so.” India and China called instead for a reference only to developed countries and those listed in Annex II of the Convention.
On circumstances of the most vulnerable, CARICOM, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, BELIZE and SAINT LUCIA highlighted the special circumstances of SIDS, noting this “reality is not negotiable,” and said that arrangements for loss and damage are crucial.
  China and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed satisfaction with the GEF’s fifth replenishment and called on contributing countries to expedite payments and for the GEF to streamline its project preparation and approval process.
On paragraph 1, , the EU, supported by GHANA, the US and AOSIS, preferred a "standing" Multilateral Consultative Committee reporting to the COP.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said developing countries can take on NAMAs commensurate with their abilities and national circumstances.
 The US and SAUDI ARABIA did not support inclusion of specific P&amp;Ms.
On deliverables from Bonn, the EU and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a streamlined text.
  Many parties, including the G-77/CHINA, EU and others, stressed the need for more equitable geographic distribution of CDM projects, particularly for Africa.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said developed countries should take the lead and developing countries should pursue a clean development pathway.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, suggested that work on the NWP and reform of the CDM could be completed at this meeting.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, requested, inter alia: recognizing linkages with the global stocktake; reflecting the notion that parties are able to choose the appropriate vehicle for communications; and clarifying the status of the annexed table.
India, supported by Botswana and Bhutan, pointed to the need to address information gaps.
 Bangladesh considered placement of the AOSIS draft protocol as timely.
Norway, supported by Australia and Chile, proposed including a definition in the SPM of “non-CO2 radiative forcing.” The US asked that a range, rather than a specific date, be used to indicate when present trends will lead to a 1.5 c2 b0C increase in GMST.
Expressing disappointment with progress made in SBI 41, Nauru, for AOSIS, said Lima should have identified how net mitigation can be built into the CDM, including through conservative baselines, shortened crediting periods and cancellations, and looked forward to continuing work on net mitigation in SBI 42.
Senegal highlighted the importance of an attractive carbon price, and Burkina Faso stated that sink projects are attractive only if the carbon price is at the level of at least US$20.
He stressed the need to focus on negative consequences, while JAPAN and TURKEY highlighted both positive and negative consequences.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for strengthening institutions on research and systematic observations and further development and implementation of the Global Framework for Climate Services .
CANADA suggested all parties adapt to the adverse effects of climate change, recognizing “its global and transnational effects.” SWITZERLAND emphasized the need to share best practices.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a clear distinction between issues to be addressed under the ADP for the post-2020 regime and issues to be finished by the AWG-LCA.
BURKINA FASO, ETHIOPIA, ZAIRE, the GAMBIA, KENYA and CHAD highlighted the difficult economic and social context for developing countries in Africa and noted that increasing problems of desertification and drought indicate climate change.
India, supported by Venezuela, asked for a bullet on international cooperation for adaptation and adaptation planning and implementation to the chapter.
During the SBI closing plenary on 9 June, Lesotho, for the LDCs: appealed to Annex II parties to increase their contributions to the LDC Fund ; stressed that the LDCF is expected to support other elements of the LDC work programme in addition to the preparation and implementation of NAPAs; and expressed disappointment that there is no reference to this in the conclusions.
Mexico, for the EIG, stated the movement for climate action is unstoppable because climate action is the correct social policy, morally a categorical imperative and economically rational.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, reiterated the need for a second commitment period in time to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
 During closing statements, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: the adoption of a decision on response measures; establishment, in Paris, of the necessary institutions to enhance capacity building; and enhancement of information provided in the IAR on support to developing countries.
TRINIDAD &amp; TOBAGO preferred a broader reference to environmentally-sound technology rather than specifying mitigation and adaptation technologies.
Australia, with Switzerland and the EU, stated that they are not ready to support land-based accounting in the second commitment period.
The Netherlands, with the US, stressed the importance of reviewing fact sheets.
Nigeria, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Mali, Trinidad and Tobago, Togo, Cape Verde, Niger, Mauritius and Djibouti supported the Chair\'s proposal.
The EU and JAPAN favored a longer high-level segment as required.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the need for the financial mechanism to be fully responsive to developing countries 92 needs, while the EU and AUSTRALIA highlighted the value of looking at all sources of funding for the Convention 92s implementation.
BHUTAN, with NEPAL, regretted the specific needs of the LDCs had been diminished in the operative articles of the text and called for including countries with fragile mountainous ecosystems in any listing of vulnerable countries.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the AWG-LCA’s work should be based on the principles and provisions of the Convention and the BAP, and should not re-classify or differentiate amongst developing countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said they expected all submissions by parties to be included in the negotiating text, and some countries, including SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, BRAZIL, BOLIVIA and INDIA, reiterated that the shared vision should be in the context of the BAP.
Guatemala, speaking also for Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama, Peru, Chile, Dominican Republic and Uruguay, supported the development of a revised draft negotiating text.
The EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS expressed interest in discussing HFCs.
AUSTRALIA asked how differentiation was achieved within the EU and noted this could set an example for Annex I countries on the road to Kyoto.
Several parties, including NORWAY and SINGAPORE, supported inviting ICAO and the IMO to Bangkok, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed.
Thailand, Venezuela, Tanzania and Saudi Arabia opposed discussion of reduction commitments for developing countries.
While agreeing that it is not necessary to launch negotiations on the Dialogue’s design, the EU and AUSTRALIA stressed that parties must leave COP 23 with clarity on its conduct.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted direct linkages between the AWG-KP and other UNFCCC processes, particularly the AWG-LCA, Article 9 Review, LULUCF and maritime and aviation emissions.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the building blocks: obligations and commitments; scale of resources; sources; and MRV.
This was opposed by several parties, with CANADA emphasizing that the objective of the technical paper is to assist parties in moving forward with the appeal by Croatia.
Brazil requested Bolivia reconsider his objection, noting that paragraph 9 of the CMA decision  already addresses the issue of additional matters in a comprehensive matter.
Several parties, including AOSIS, the EU, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND suggested work on annexes and amendments.
New Zealand, Norway, and IPCC Vice-Chair Barrett, confirmed by the Secretariat, noted that decision titles should follow the names of the agenda item, which cannot be changed at this point.
NEW ZEALAND and AILAC welcomed a list of possible questions presented by the LMDCs on, inter alia: linkage between the global stocktake and other institutional arrangements; procedural format; inclusion of science; establishment of a SED; timeframe; and possible outputs.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN, CANADA, the US and the EU, underscored the importance of institutional arrangements and MRV.
New Zealand, supported by Australia and Canada, proposed including a template for understanding underlying assumptions for nationally appropriate mitigation actions .
The G-77/CHINA, the LDCs, AOSIS, CHINA and SAINT LUCIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, urged anchoring the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the 2015 agreement.
The US pointed out that projects differ in terms of how prone they are to leakage, and, with Canada and Japan, stressed that the scale of actual LULUCF projects implemented would be limited.
Ecuador, for ALBA, underscored a tendency by some parties to distract attention away from the principle objectives of the Convention by focusing on technical and procedural issues.
On the role of the Convention, Peru suggested enhancing synergies with the UNCCD and CBD and Australia emphasized the role of the UNFCCC process in determining a method for prioritizing support to vulnerable countries based, inter alia, on physical impacts and adaptive capacity.
BRAZIL preferred reference to complementing the objectives of relevant international agreements but not enhancing synergies and, with NEW ZEALAND, emphasized the need for clarity when using terms such as “equitable,” “cost-effectiveness” and “verifiable.” BOLIVIA suggested mention of a possible Stabilization Fund, highlighted sectoral approaches and, with TUVALU, questioned reference to the use of IPCC Good Practice Guidance for LULUCF.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed adding a placeholder to outcomes from Adaptation Fund consultations underway “under the APA.” Muyungi said the Co-Chairs did not have a mandate to cross-reference text to a stand-alone agenda item.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that implementation of current commitments should be the COP\'s chief concern.
Parties addressed how CGE workshops should be organized, with the EU, opposed by the G-77/China, suggesting that workshops could address all thematic areas in a combined approach, rather than addressing one theme only.
  On capacity building, SUDAN called for efforts to ensure access to opportunities and adaptive capabilities of people, and TOGO stressed solidarity and equity, and the need for awareness raising among young people.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, reminded all delegates that the draft was being accepted ad referendum.
TUVALU, supported by MALAYSIA, objected to defining assigned amounts  within this contact group.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and BOLIVIA raised points of order, requesting more time to reflect on the new text before moving into streamlining.
Australia, speaking for the UMBRELLA GROUP, pointed out that the Durban compromise included an agreement for a new negotiation process.
The US and Benin said that any such proposal should be reviewed by the full membership of both subsidiary bodies.
The Gambia, for LDCs, welcomed progress on procedural issues under the NWP.
COP-5 considered proposals to amend FCCC Annex I and II relating to Turkey and Kazakhstan.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against referring to “contributions” or “commitments.” The US proposed referring to “actions.” Brazil said work that has been done under the Cancun Adaptation Framework and Nairobi Work Programme should be recognized.
On a draft conclusion on involvement of NGOs , the US, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA, the EU, and CHINA, deleted a request for additional information on the objectives of NGOs.
Algeria, for the Group of 77 and China , stated that the ADP’s outcome must be in line with the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention and emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
On transparency, the African Group raised concerns about brackets around “flexibility options,” stressed tracking progress on all elements of the NDCs, and, with AOSIS, called for guidance on reporting loss and damage.
While Australia expressed concern regarding the singling out of GMOs and IAS, Norway regretted the lack of stronger language excluding them from project activities.
 GERMANY explained the amendments to the document, including inter alia: in paragraph VI, delete a specific reference to the OECD and IEA as international bodies to be consulted by SBSTA; in paragraph VII, allow for consideration of papers submitted by delegations for the Secretariat\'s recommendations on guidelines for national communications; in paragraph VIII, impose a deadline of 15 November 1995 for submissions from Parties for the Secretariat\'s compilation document on AIJ; in paragraph VIII, on AIJ, and paragraph XII, on transfer of technology, add elaborative sentences to balance the two issues; and, in paragraph XVI, Workshop on NGO inputs, provide assistance for developing country NGOs and add "The views expressed by Parties will be taken into account in preparing for the workshop."
He underlined the need to respect national circumstances, notably energy endowments, and applauded efforts by India, China and South Africa.
The JUSCANZ group was represented by Australia, the US and a country to be nominated, and the Eastern European Group was represented by the Czech Republic and Russia.
On Thursday, 10 December, CMP 11 Vice-President Sylla informed parties that, since the Secretariat’s statement on 2 December 2015, two additional instruments of ratification, from Argentina and Sri Lanka, had been received, bringing the total to 57.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS with the SUDAN, the GAMBIA, AOSIS and CHINA said the process had to be country driven rather than agency driven and must follow the guidance of the COP.
On triggers, many countries, including IRAN, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL, PAKISTAN and the US, highlighted the committee has to be self-triggered, with others mentioning triggering by groups of parties.
Brazil, Argentina and Japan questioned this proposal but agreed to it following the author e2 80 99s explanation that referring to pathways of land use would be the best option.
China, Brazil and several other developing countries also highlighted historical responsibility, while several developed countries referred to changing economic circumstances and increases in developing countries’ emissions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, assured parties that concluding the AWG-LCA at COP 18 will not end work on financing and adaptation, and lamented that the Chair’s informal note did not reflect progress made in Bangkok.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed individual country assessments need to go in parallel with the collective assessment of progress.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the PHILIPPINES, ARGENTINA, NICARAGUA and other developing countries called for establishing a spin-off group on adaptation, noting the need to further consider national adaptation plans for developing countries that are not LDCs.
FAO noted new activities under the second phase, which included collaborating with the agricultural sector to prepare action plans in DRR with climate change adaptation at the national and district levels in Bangladesh, Nepal, Belize and Jamaica.
Many countries said that a land-based accounting approach is a desirable long-term goal, but BRAZIL, CHINA and JAPAN underscored incomplete reporting of data, as well as the existing scientific uncertainties of measurement, including the challenge of distinguishing between anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic emissions and removals.
The UK proposed also addressing figures from the Stern Review estimating the social cost of carbon at US$85 per tonne, while Saudi Arabia indicated they would not discuss the text or the Stern Review in the plenary or a small group.
On the documentation of wide ranging impacts of climate changes 93for the first time, 94 the US, China and Saudi Arabia questioned the basis of this statement.
The G-77/China, the EU, Japan, Mexico, AOSIS and many others said that Article 3.9 was not the proper place to address voluntary commitments.
The UK, Germany and others opposed presenting it as a box, saying that boxes present length and content limitations.
On  , Norway and Ecuador reported on key outstanding issues: financing; scope of a REDD+ mechanism; connection between the national and sub-national levels; and MRV of safeguards.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for direct negotiations between parties, and opposed e2 80 9clast-minute imposition of text by co-facilitators e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cimposition of commitments on Arab States.
GERMANY highlighted the Petersburg Climate Dialogue convened jointly by Germany and Mexico in early May, aimed at discussing a way forward for UNFCCC negotiations in the run-up to Cancún.
The US, Australia and Japan raised concerns about the process by which the draft conclusions were reached.
She added that France, Korea, Brazil and Norway were working on the issue of a prompt start and that divergence remained on a possible unilateral CDM.
The EU highlighted monitoring and research, the importance of dialogue between donors and recipients and, with the NETHERLANDS, providing for adaptation within national and sectoral strategies.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that it would not support text stipulating that all parties must contribute financial resources nor an approach suggesting differentiation among developing countries on access to financial resources.
INDIA, CHINA and others urged parties to focus on the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, while TUVALU urged continuing the contact group’s discussions.
Brazil, for Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, supported developing textual elements and suggested distinguishing the elements that need to be agreed in 2018 from those that can be addressed later.
France, Switzerland, Japan, and others supported these proposed amendments.
Opposed by New Zealand and supported by India, he added that, pending agreement of this issue in the LULUCF group, any reference to Article 3.4 should be bracketed.
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela suggested deleting reference to “market and non-market approaches.” The EU, Netherlands, Norway and Ireland opposed, noting that the reference will help guide authors about the potential range of international climate policy tools and experiences as they relate to cooperation.
Costa Rica spoke for countries belonging to the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM, consisting of Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and the Dominican Republic.
During the roundtable, a range of ideas were put forward with Tuvalu and others arguing against substantial changes to Protocol Article 3.3  and 3.4  and Australia and others proposing listing LULUCF sectors in Annex A of the Protocol, treating it like other major sectors.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed the importance of reaching agreement in Doha on a second commitment period that begins on 1 January 2013.
On  , the G-77/China, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, proposed adding “learning-by-doing” as a principle, and Colombia noted that principles should be of a general nature.
The EU argued that the purpose of economic diversification is to reduce dependence on one commodity, while the G-77/China noted that since many countries have only one resource, making that resource less polluting should be a purpose of the Fund.
In addition to the AWG-KP and Convention Dialogue, post-2012 issues were also considered under the first review of the Protocol under Article 9, held at COP/MOP 2 in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2006, and in discussions on a proposal by the Russian Federation on procedures to approve voluntary commitments for developing countries.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a single comprehensive agreement for the post-Kyoto period, and NORWAY said a future agreement should include the necessary 2050 goal and adequate and ambitious collective emission reductions by 2020, with the participation of all countries, except LDCs.
SAMOA suggested any source the compliance body deemed appropriate, while IRAN said Parties should be the only source.
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia and Montenegro opposed Croatia 92s greenhouse gas emissions inventory adjustments for the 1990 base year.
Hungary and the EU proposed reference to "relevant international and intergovernmental organizations."
The US and Norway highlighted integrating adaptation into national planning and policies as a critical element.
India said the review of implementation should be addressed in post-Paris decisions, an option China requested to remain on the table.
 MICRONESIA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, expressed concern about channeling GEF funds and urged that higher priority be given to adaptation methodology.
On preambular paragraphs, the LDCs, opposed by the EU, requested deletion of reference to the global average temperature increase of 2 c2 b0C.
BOLIVIA and ECUADOR requested that the COP consider Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 136  and begin work.
TUVALU, SAMOA and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA urged postponing discussions until the remaining uncertainties relating to LULUCF had been addressed.
UKRAINE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed this proposal, saying it would mean renegotiating the Protocol.
Grenada, Colombia and the Gambia said it is important to maintain a five-year rather than an eight-year second commitment period, given the low level of ambition.
Senegal, for the LDCs, with the PHILIPPINES, thanked the EU for their positive spirit that has allowed capacity building to be taken up at a higher level.
COLOMBIA, supported by BRAZIL, suggested a spin-off group to address scaling up of climate finance and avoiding a financial gap between 2012 and 2020.
Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago, and WGII Vice-Chair Semenov noted that the GST modalities are still being negotiated, with Trinidad and Tobago noting that the task group should remain flexible until they are finalized.
On the conclusions relating to the IPCC Third Assessment Report , SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT proposed deferring the issue to SBSTA-16.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested that parties focus discussions on how to undertake the consolidation of response measures issues.
The US, Brazil, the Russian Federation and Bolivia opposed including definitions of “REDD+” and, with Malaysia, for the LMDCs, of “climate forcers.” c2 a0
The G- 77/CHINA, supported by VENEZUELA, NIGERIA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, MEXICO, GAMBIA, MALAYSIA and MOROCCO, stressed that the instrument should not deviate from the Berlin Mandate.
Switzerland, on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need for entry into force of the Protocol.
Greece, Belgium, Spain and Slovenia supported renewable energy and energy efficiency.
ETHIOPIA, supported by MALI, noted that the language already reflects compromise and preferred retaining the text as it stands.
The PHILIPPINES, for the Asian Group and supported by INDIA, PAKISTAN, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA, KUWAIT AND IRAN, stated that no agreement had been reached on the election of the Vice-Chair because the incumbent regional group intended to keep it for a second term.
The EU, BRAZIL, JAPAN, CUBA and others identified the need for a long-term global goal.
The Netherlands, on behalf of the European Union , presented a proposal on enhancing the observer status of the European Community  as a regional economic integration organization .
CANADA stressed that their target is aligned with the levels pledged by the US in the Copenhagen Accord and that such alignment is necessary given the economic interlinkages between the two countries.
Australia, supported by Austria and China, stressed that the SR should focus on practical information for decision makers.
The EU and JAPAN supported a common reporting format  proposed for inventory data guidelines.
 In paragraph X, on the analysis of environmental and socio-economic effects, SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, proposed replacing "environmental and socio-economic" with "aggregated."
The EU, supported by Japan, proposed a pilot phase approach.
Norway, Iceland, Japan and Switzerland supported reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation .
VENEZUELA and ARGENTINA stressed the need to work on text.
She noted that regional workshops held recently in Senegal and Panama had been viewed as “very productive.” The UNFCCC Secretariat noted that two remaining workshops are expected for 2012, one in Asia and the other in the Pacific.
The US, with Australia and Japan, suggested addressing how discussions on capacity building differ from discussions on support in other AWG-LCA contact groups.
France and Peru reported on open-ended informal dialogues that took place in March and May 2015, and Germany reported on the 6th Petersberg Dialogue held in May 2015.
On decision text adopting the improved guidelines, the EU, supported by the US and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, asked for text noting the need for review of the guidelines.
China, for G-77/CHINA, opposed, arguing that the mandate from the ADP Co-Chairs is to continue streamlining.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, cautioned parties “not to change the focus and character” of the contact group, called for focusing energies on discussions in the spin-off groups and said topics for discussion should complement the agreed outcome under the AWG-LCA.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said the group expects Annex B parties to reconsider their commitments, making every effort to increase them with a view to eliminating the pre-2020 mitigation gap.
VENEZUELA, supported by BOLIVIA, called for a better allocation of time among the different agenda issues.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported a new climate change framework that builds on the Kyoto Protocol, when appropriate, and takes operationalizing the Cancun Agreements as a foundation for future action.
Panama, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS , highlighted the critical role of REDD+.
  The Gambia, for the LDCs, emphasized the need for: a party-oriented approach that accommodates national circumstances; scientific evaluation of the adequacy of commitments; sufficient flexibility; and periodic review of commitments.
 The EU and the US suggested that the scale of contributions to the budget be more explicit.
Venezuela, Iran, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia protested and insisted that their amendments be included in brackets.
Australia called for progress on biennial update reporting guidelines to create a framework to enable developing countries to begin the process and suggested, with the EU, January 2014 as a date for the submission of the first biennial update report.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, CANADA, SINGAPORE, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and AUSTRALIA supported the development of a technical paper on progress made since COP 16 in Cancun, considering actions taken and actions that need to be taken.
On the ongoing work of the WG, the Netherlands noted the need for coordination with WGs II and III, and Australia called for inclusion of the issue of waves in the scope of the workshop on sea level and ice sheet stability to be held in June 2010 in Malaysia, in conjunction with the World Climate Research Programme.
In the Thursday morning contact group, Slovenia and the Russian Federation supported an option for an Executive Secretary, noting that such a title connoted more humility.
New Zealand and the US opposed establishment of such a mechanism.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, and supported by ZIMBABWE, BRAZIL and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, recalled the original willingness of the G-77 to apply but not accept the Chair\'s original proposals to allow the TAPs to begin.
On the national and regional levels, panelists presented on: processes for developing gender-responsive national policies in Peru and Cambodia; and improving gender diversity in power sector utilities.
The EU, US and AUSTRALIA favored text requiring that second national communications be submitted within three years of the availability of financial resources.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment at the pace of work throughout the week and said that the need for fair and equitable access to financial resources is becoming more urgent.
 Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, IPCC Chair Rajendra Pachauri, UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer, and the leaders of Singapore, Papua New Guinea, Palau, the Maldives and Norway also addressed the plenary.
The EU and US agreed to develop a common text on Article 5.2 as a basis for further negotiation.
On rules and modalities, the EU, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested that the new agreement contain high-level MRV and accounting principles, with guidelines and modalities elaborated in COP decisions.
The EU, supported by AOSIS, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed the inclusion of HWP in the first commitment period.
Stressing the need for improved outreach in his region, IRAN, supported by AFGHANISTAN, proposed that the IPCC hold workshops focusing on Asia and the Middle East.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing areas with little divergence and issues in part 3 of the tool .
Argentina, for the G-77/China, inter alia, called for an action-oriented NWP and identified the need to strengthen linkages between the NWP and SBI.
The EU said the upcoming workshop should consider, inter alia, defining 93best practices 94 and assessing the extent to which international cooperation may enhance effectiveness of P&amp;Ms. AUSTRALIA preferred reference to 93good 94 rather than 93best 94 practices and, with JAPAN and the US, said P&amp;Ms should reflect national circumstances.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, CANADA and others, noted the need for general guidance on data submission requirements to realize consistency among countries.
CHINA, with JORDAN, suggested focus on how to increase international support to enhance action.
The US, Canada, Japan, Costa Rica, Australia, Colombia, Honduras and Bolivia, opposed by the EU, China and Ghana, argued in favor of including sinks in the CDM.
GUATEMALA, also speaking for some other Latin American countries, said reference to local and indigenous knowledge should be expanded to read: “seek, enhance, support and promote local and indigenous knowledge and techniques which have been experienced worldwide historically and successfully.” BOLIVIA underlined that traditional or indigenous knowledge could be obtained worldwide and said the text should reflect this.
TANZANIA, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the COP-7 decision had not been implemented by the GEF and its developed country partners.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the EU has begun investigating 11 areas of P&amp;M, identifying indicators, evaluating targets, and assessing emission reductions toward a study for AGBM 4.
The Russian Federation and China objected and threatened to bracket the entire document unless all six UN languages are listed.
Belarus, for Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Russia, for EITs, recognized a step forward in resolving to take into consideration the special situation of the EITs.
Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, the US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
 Highlighting precedent with the IPCC Third Assessment Report, Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, supported considering AR4 at SBSTA 27.
Noting that some mitigation actions may require technical or capacity building support rather than financial support, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said all three aspects should be subject to MRV in order to get “a full picture” of the support provided to developing countries.
The US, supported by Australia, suggested that parties focus discussions on how to undertake the consolidation of response measures issues.
The G-77/CHINA stated that available, voluntary inventories would be communicated “should the full costs of inventory preparation be provided by the operating entity of the financial mechanism.” The PHILIPPINES supported the G- 77/CHINA and called for reference to Article 11.5 .
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the full implementation of NAPAs and the LDC work programme, highlighting the need for support and resources.
AILAC and Norway called for specific rules on land use.
Noting the need to anticipate trends such as the growth of publications on adaptation, the UK, supported by Peru and others, proposed splitting the work of WGII on impacts and adaptation in order to have four working groups that could cope with a predicted increase in information.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and the EU, called for amending the agenda item on the registry of NDCs by removing a reference to Paris Agreement Article 4.12  from its title.
The UMBRELLA GROUP and the G-77/CHINA preferred setting an earlier time, whereas the EU preferred a more 93flexible 94 arrangement that would allow for later meetings.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, encouraged more non-Annex I countries to submit their Biennial Update Reports  and said strengthening national institutions’ GHG inventories should be the PCCB’s priority in 2017.
Trinidad and Tobago  the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Micronesia, Norway, Mauritius, Solomon Islands and Cuba preferred Alternative A, provided that protocols are adopted by consensus or, as a last resort, a 2/3 majority vote.
The PHILIPPINES, with BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and others, requested retaining reference to the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples to reflect collective rights.
The EU proposed discussing this issue under existing agenda items and NORWAY identified “adjustment” procedures similar to those developed in the context of the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution as a possible solution.
 Zimbabwe, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, suggested a new work programme focused on specific adaptation actions.
Burkina Faso, speaking for the Africa Group, congratulated Chair Ashe on SBI 92s work.
Several groups of parties, including the G-77/China and the EU, expressed willingness to propose draft elements.
Belgium, for the EU, emphasized the importance of achieving a balanced package of decisions in Cancun in order to restore trust in the multilateral climate change process.
NORWAY and the US suggested, and the G-77/CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA opposed, moving to conceptual discussions.
 INDIA, supported by Colombia, acknowledged the Chair\'s draft text but added that the draft could be strengthened with the amendments made by the G-77 and China.
He explained that CATHALAC is dedicated to enhancing scientific understanding of water management, and described the three-year project for Capacity Building for Stage II Adaptation to Climate Change in Central America, Mexico and Cuba.
The US, Sweden, and Switzerland cautioned that IPCC funding should be the responsibility of governments, not of other entities that might influence the Panel’s outcomes.
On Scope of Application, CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and opposed by ARGENTINA and CHILE, suggested listing the Annex I Parties 92 commitments to which the compliance system would apply, and said issues of compliance with other commitments would be dealt with under the Multilateral Consultative Process.
Chile, for AILAC, said that “contributions” should be communicated every five years, with an indication of contributions for the subsequent five-year period, as well as the five-year period following that.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said the AWG-LCA 11 should conclude negotiations on legal form.
Kuwait said that any amendment of the G-77 and China proposal would involve the danger of transferring Annex I Parties\' commitments to other countries.
Opposed by the EU and the US, MEXICO, with BANGLADESH, supported conducting, and offered to host, regional and sub-regional TEMs, with BRAZIL willing to explore this idea.
Belgium, for the EU, said a Cancun outcome should further clarify parties’ emission reduction objectives with a view to limiting global average warming to 2°C and inscribing them under the AWG-KP process.
Schedule of meetings for 2000-2001: On Tuesday, 3 November, in the SBI plenary, the EU, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed that COP-5 be held in 2000 rather than 1999.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, supported holding the workshop.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at slow progress and urged Annex I parties to raise the level of ambition in their current mitigation pledges.
The US, CANADA and AUSTRALIA emphasized coordination among national focal points.
BRAZIL underscored the importance of additionality and said standardized baselines would change the CDM’s nature, while PAPUA NEW GUINEA said they would be compatible with the current definition and make the CDM more efficient and objective.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and ARGENTINA, underscored that any action should be in line with the principles of the Convention and the Protocol.
 VANUATU advocated for a fund for LDCs that do not have ready access to GEF funds.
Saudi Arabia said the G-77/China was not in a position to comment on text and needed more time.
After a brief discussion during which VENEZUELA and KUWAIT suggested that a written report accompany SBSTA decisions, delegates adopted the provisional agenda for the session .
Switzerland, with Germany, expressed concern that the wording proposed would give the impression that the entire 2019 Guidelines lacked consensus, when it was just one issue.
On funding for the assessment, CANADA and the US preferred not specifying Annex II countries, stating that numerous sources of funding may be involved.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Kuwait, Oman, Brazil, China, India and Algeria, stressed that all developing countries are affected by negative consequences of response measures and that efforts to “sub-divide” developing countries are inconsistent with the Convention.
On the role of the International Civil Aviation Organization  and the International Maritime Organization  in regulating aviation and shipping emissions, SINGAPORE, MEXICO and the US proposed that those organizations take the lead, while the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, TUVALU and others suggested that the Convention’s guidance is necessary.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for discussions on early entry into force, with Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasizing the need for an expedited entry into force.
The Republic of Korea and Ethiopia preferred retaining text on multiplication factors, and the EU said discounting should be seen in the wider context of, inter alia, benchmarks, and should be retained in the text.
Saint Lucia, Cuba and Bahamas opposed deleting reference to small islands, with WGII agreeing to change the language to indicate special vulnerability of small islands instead of their 93highest relative increase in risk.
NEW ZEALAND opposed a "hands on" role for the COP/MOP and, with the EU, suggested that the COP/ MOP merely provide policy "background" to the compliance bodies.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the US, preferred replacing e2 80 9cunilateral e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cunconditional.
Denmark and Canada objected.
The EU and Japan stressed coordination of existing sources of funding.
Malaysia and Thailand opposed inclusion of additional activities under Protocol Article 3.4 in the first commitment period.
On HFCs, the EU, supported by COSTA RICA, expressed interest in exploring linkages between the UNFCCC and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
GUYANA, INDIA and SURINAME underscored conservation.
The EU, supported by INDIA, questioned the usefulness of the exercise, stressing the proposals e2 80 99 different purposes.
Drawing attention to the recently established Durban Forum for in-depth discussion on capacity building, the US, the EU and other developed countries opposed having a spin-off group.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for an AWG-LCA outcome in Doha to be in line with the Bali Action Plan and decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
Nigeria and Venezuela said the mechanisms would be insufficient to ameliorate the impacts of climate change.
INDIA said the carbon price should not be fixed and defining CDM projects’ contribution to sustainable development should remain the host country’s prerogative, while UGANDA responded that sustainable development objectives of the CDM should be assessed.
Several parties, including CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA and Chile, for AILAC, noted it is premature to discuss placement.
IRAN and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES noted that neither the FCCC nor the Kyoto Protocol provides for voluntary commitments and cautioned that the discussion could lead to the imposition of commitments on developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA proposed bracketing reference to sub-paragraphs 1 and b. VENEZUELA, opposed by the US and CANADA, included reference to Protocol Article 2.3 .
On forest management, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and the US called for a simple and clear definition.
The US, France, Mali, Mexico, Finland, the Maldives and others expressed openness to a hybrid financing approach, with caveats.
New Zealand and Canada indicated that the EU’s experiences in defining targets could be useful and the EU offered to host a workshop on this.
In discussions on the presentations: Nigeria highlighted the need for open, thorough and transparent scientific processes; Switzerland invited governments to contribute to funding the IPCC; Australia, Canada and others underlined the capacity-building implications of the GCOS regional workshops; and several delegations underlined the importance of maintaining the political independence of the IPCC.
Responding to a request by Saudi Arabia to add a disclaimer in the Figure e2 80 99s caption on models e2 80 99 potential deficiencies or uncertainty, WGI Co-Chair Stocker, with the Netherlands, noted that this concern is addressed by the terminology used, such as e2 80 9cmulti-model means e2 80 9d and e2 80 9clikely ranges, e2 80 9d as in other approved figures and the underlying assessment.
 The third Cartagena Dialogue, an informal space open to countries working towards an ambitious, comprehensive and legally-binding regime under the UNFCCC, took place from 31 October – 2 November 2010 in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Benin, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted funding.
Ecuador, for ALBA, said negotiations should be transparent and inclusive.
NEPAL, TIMOR-LESTE, BURKINA FASO and SIERRA LEONE stressed the need to extend the LEG’s mandate and MALAWI called for abolishing the co-financing requirement for NAPA projects.
The EU noted that these options are well refined within the current text on mechanisms and, with NEW ZEALAND, said they require a political decision.
He highlighted fast-track financial support through the REDD+ partnership and, with AUSTRALIA, ECUADOR and others, identified the need for public and private funding.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, said there was a role for the investor Party in coordinating several small-scale project activities.
The report of the workshop will be forwarded to the twenty-eighth session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice , scheduled to convene in June 2008 in Bonn, Germany, and will contribute to a summary report on the NWP that will be distributed in advance of SBSTA 29, to be held in December 2008, in Poznan, Poland.
On scope of INDCs, SAUDI ARABIA and MEXICO called for INDCs to address adaptation, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, MONGOLIA, the AFRICAN GROUP, Costa Rica, for AILAC, and KENYA emphasizing MOI as well.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, the EU and CANADA, emphasized that the aggregate range should be discussed in cooperation with the AWG-LCA.
 In opening the session, INC Chair Ra ef bf bdl Estrada-Oyuela announced that AOSIS nominated Samoa as a COP Vice Chair.
With Australia, for the Umbrella Group, he entertained the idea of a new text from the ADP Co-Chairs.
UGANDA underscored the urgency of the LDCs 92 concerns.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, underscored the importance of short- and long-term action and commitment to successfully completing the Paris Agreement rulebook in 2018.
GAMBIA, GHANA, the US, PALAU and MALAWI welcomed the earmarking of 50% of GCF finance for adaptation, and supported continued balance in the agreement.
On the plenary of the Compliance Committee, the G-77/China, opposed by the US, EU, Australia, the Russian Federation and New Zealand, said it should have an allocation as well as a preliminary examination function.
Australia joined the US in stressing that the IPCC 92s role be limited to assessment of emission scenarios while Germany, the Netherlands, and others supported a broader coordination role for the IPCC.
NORWAY, the EU and JAPAN disagreed.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA, and CHINA , expressed concern that its call for equal treatment of pre-2020 ambition has gone unheeded, and highlighted the Talanoa Dialogue and the Doha Amendment’s ratification as opportunities to build trust.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for guidance to be flexible and, with the EU, to promote progression.
SINGAPORE and several other AOSIS members stated that the AWG-LCA’s outcome must be a global and comprehensive legally-binding agreement that is complementary to the Kyoto Protocol.
Parties discussed the inclusion of mitigation activities, with Canada and the EU calling for a balance between adaptation and mitigation measures.
AUSTRALIA and AOSIS, opposed by the LMDCs, supported a technical paper on triggers.
Swaziland, for the African Group, underlined that work on pre-2020 mitigation provides additional opportunities to close the ambition gap but is not an alternative to commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and the AWG-LCA.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CHAD said that parallel meetings were a problem for smaller delegations, but endorsed the proposal for two extra weeks.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for serious negotiations and a focused work programme with concrete milestones.
The Panel further agrees that the Task Group be composed of Vice-Chair van Ypersele, Co-Chair Stocker, Secretary Christ, New Zealand, Austria, India, Uganda, and Singapore, with support from the TSUs, and invites the Task Group to submit a report to the Panel at its next session.
Norway, Australia, New Zealand, the US, the EU, Canada, Turkey, Papua New Guinea and Mexico, for the EIG, supported the creation of new market mechanisms.
Tuvalu noted the negative impacts of some biofuels, and the Gambia drew attention to the current food crisis.
The EU, Chile, Mexico, Mali and AOSIS welcomed workstream 2 as a tool to engage with non-state actors.
China, supported by Switzerland, asked, and participants agreed, that the words “Year 2000 Committed” be rephrased to “Constant Year 2000 Concentrations.” Participants expressed concern that the media may interpret the new temperature projections to be lower than those in the TAR (i.e.
Switzerland, with Austria and Norway, highlighted the importance of satellite and other remote sensing measurements, while Brazil noted concerns about the proposal to consider areas where inventory science is in a relatively early stage of development, such as wetlands, savannahs, and settlements, and the use of data from other emissions accounting.
Saudi Arabia, with Venezuela and Brazil, stressed the need to retain text stating, inter alia, that developed countries shall not resort to unilateral measures, including countervailing border measures on developing country imports.
India, for BASIC, which includes Brazil, China, India and South Africa, stressed that ADP negotiations are aimed at strengthening the multilateral climate regime, and not at negotiating a new regime or rewriting, restructuring or reinventing the Convention’s principles and provisions.
The US, supported by CANADA, noted that the IMO and ICAO are specialized independent agencies with their own guiding principles, which limits the application of the Convention’s principles.
 MEXICO, supported by KOREA, said climate change must be tackled on the basis of common but differentiated responsibilities.
CHINA, SUDAN, INDIA, BOLIVIA, SAUDI ARABIA and Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the African Group’s statement and highlighted that the solution refers not only to time devoted to numbers, but also to the need for progress on concrete, specific and ambitious numbers.
In the discussions on the update, MALAYSIA warned against conversion of bilateral projects into AIJ projects and ZIMBABWE drew attention to two AIJ projects in his country and a future national workshop.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for enhancing the means of implementation to meet the additional reporting requirements established in Cancun.
The MALDIVES and MAURITIUS highlighted the vulnerability of SIDS, and called for technology transfer to address adaptation needs.
Nine others have ratified or acceded and will become Parties soon: Belgium, Cambodia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Morocco, Slovenia, Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA, said NAMAs should not be used for offsetting and expressed concern over the possibility of double counting.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored the need to work towards a concrete and achievable outcome in Cancun that would serve as the basis for an ambitious and legally-binding outcome.
EGYPT, with ALGERIA, called for including a separate paragraph on co-benefits.
Canada, supported by Australia, said that the discussion on functions should first focus on the results that parties wish to see in the longer term and then consider how to construct the best possible mechanism for realizing them.
Kenya, for the Africa Group, stressed the need for progress on the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 .
Swaziland, for the African Group, said Workstream 1 should culminate in an enhanced multilateral rules-based regime, and adhere to historical responsibility, CBDR and the development priorities of developing countries.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the EU, Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, Switzerland, for the EIG, and Malawi, for the LDCs, commended the work and role of the Adaptation Fund in supporting adaptation efforts in developing countries, with the G-77/CHINA also appreciating the Fund’s “innovativeness” in the area of access modalities.
POLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION supported a menu approach, which takes account of various economic structures and attempts to maintain a high and stable rate of economic growth.
The EU and Australia, for the Umbrella Group, looked forward to further iterations of the non-paper on the elements for a draft negotiating text.
MEXICO and MALAWI suggested that the text on agriculture should be forwarded to Barcelona.
Brazil and Niger stressed the importance of engaging developing country scientists, and Sweden highlighted the need to involve experts on observations and impact research.
BELGIUM emphasized the link between FCCC negotiations and those at the CSD and said the Special Session of the General Assembly will be the “moment of truth.” SRI LANKA stressed the need for sustained economic growth and alleviation of poverty when reviewing the implementation of the Convention.
Kuwait, for the G-77/China, highlighted overall assessments of NDCs and information on mobilization of support, with India, Argentina and Norway calling for including information on the state of adaptation support.
Republic of Korea, for EIG, welcomed progress on, inter alia: MRV of systems for Annex I and non-Annex I countries; adaptation; technology transfer; and REDD+.
He added that the OECD and the IEA have already begun work on a possible process, and that the UK would regard the reduction of 5% to 10% below 1990 levels as an acceptable figure.
 Recalling that the decision on small-scale afforestation and reforestation in the CDM was only taken at COP 10, BRAZIL said it was premature to discuss a change in the limit and, with AUSTRALIA, the EU and others, noted market-related problems due to economies of scale and not necessarily the CDM.
BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, PAKISTAN and INDIA opposed contributions from sub-national authorities to high-level events.
KYRGYZSTAN, also speaking for Tajikistan, Bhutan and Nepal, called for more attention to landlocked mountainous developing countries.
CANADA, JAPAN and NORWAY stressed the need to consider the review of Annex I reporting.
With MALI, RWANDA, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, and TIMOR-LESTE, she opposed the co-financing requirement, which she said is particularly burdensome for LDCs.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, said the GEF had provided most non-Annex I Parties with funding for national communications.
When the plenary reconvened on Saturday afternoon, the EU and several developing countries said they could support India 92s proposal, while the US stated that she could not accept this formulation.
Mexico, China, Marshall Islands, Cuba, Fiji, Viet Nam, Panama, for CfRN, Bolivia, Saudi Arabia and the Dominican Republic supported the third option, in which the COP would launch an accelerated implementation mechanism to assess progress made in the implementation of Decision 1/CP.19, paragraphs 3 and 4, by convening meetings in conjunction with SB 42, 44 and 46.
Denmark, with Belgium, called for easy access to graphs and tables in the final report, and asked that the translation of the text in the figures be facilitated.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by THAILAND, COLOMBIA and the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that discussions on REDD-plus are more advanced than those on NAMAs and that REDD-plus can inform development of NAMAs.
Noting that the first commitment period is only an initial step, Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged Parties to consider the format for discussions on addressing climate change beyond 2012.
It involves a two-stage approach, starting with a short stocktaking exercise, followed by a longer process involving pilot activities focused on Micronesia and the Cook Islands.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by NORWAY and the US, said a quantitative goal for adaptation MOI could be aggregated from national adaptation plans .
The US proposed, with support from Switzerland, that the pre-scoping questionnaire be approved by the relevant WG Bureaus.
Argentina and Saudi Arabia highlighted reservations made to the ICAO resolution.
Regarding election of officers, consultations held by the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies with the regional groups resulted in the nomination of the Central African Republic as Vice Chair of SBSTA and Switzerland as Vice Chair of SBI, to be followed by Iran.
Peru and Paraguay said adaptation should maintain ecosystems, and called for strengthening community participation, including of indigenous communities.
Other text that was bracketed included: SAUDIA ARABIA 92s proposed reference to methodological issues related to assessing the effectiveness "and impact" of P&amp;Ms; a reference proposed by the US to "assessing/ characterizing" the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms; and the EU 92s reference to the future "structured" work on P&amp;Ms.
The US and CANADA urged a preliminary exchange of views at the current session.
Under Identification and Classification of Problems by Expert Review Teams , the US, opposed by the EU, proposed moving the section on classification, stressing that ERT 92s should identify rather than classify problems.
On the draft conclusions, the Gambia, for LDCs, sought to add reference to LDCs in one section.
The Netherlands, Austria, Spain and others, opposed by Norway, called for inclusion of a Technical Summary, with Belgium suggesting the Technical Summary be based on chapter summaries.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, called for continuing the Protocol’s key elements, including quantified and legally-binding objectives, the flexibility mechanisms and a transparent monitoring system.
Portugal, for the European Union , restated that global greenhouse gas  emissions should be reduced by 50% by 2050 to ensure that the average temperature increase is no more than 2 b0C above pre-industrial levels.
Several parties, including BRAZIL, TUVALU, ARGENTINA and MEXICO, suggested conceptual issues should be discussed at ADP 2-9 without the expectation of being resolved.
In response to questions from the Netherlands and the UK, the Secretariat clarified that the working capital reserve would come from the existing general reserve and would also be replenished from general reserves within the Trust Fund.
On the AOSIS proposal, Nauru, for AOSIS, explained their submission concentrates on expanding the technical process post-2015, including: more effective and efficient TEMs through advance notice and increased interaction; regularly updated papers following TEMs; invitation of submissions by organizations at all levels with experience in implementing elements discussed in the TEMs; and ministerial engagement in workstream 2.
Canada and Japan did not include LULUCF in calculations of their respective pledges.
Also, while the Umbrella Group and the G-77/China sought strict limitations on evening meetings, the EU favored a more flexible approach.
Saudi Arabia, with China, WGII Vice-Chair Zatari, Ghana, Iran, South Africa, and Pakistan, cautioned against, inter alia:
Switzerland, for Environmental Integrity Group, described the Agreement as legally-binding, ambitious and fair, saying it is flexible for future developments and provides an ambitious basis for combating climate change.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and framework for implementation.
Papua New Guinea noted that some G-77/China parties sent “public servants” to negotiate the Accord instead of their Heads of State or Government, and that these officials were to blame for “striking a lot of substance out of the document.” The US noted broad participation of about 30 countries in the development of the document.
The US, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, with SWITZERLAND, suggested donors include all parties in a position to do so and that developing parties “in need” be eligible for support.
IRELAND and NORWAY highlighted linkages between climate change and poverty.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern that the APA is not on track to complete the PAWP by the end of the year, and requested additional time be allocated to APA agenda items 3, 6 , and 5 .
The Russian Federation and Japan, opposed by Samoa, preferred consecutive rather than parallel functions, with the facilitative stage preceding enforcement.
Senegal, for the African Group, with Japan, Zambia, Papua New Guinea and Ethiopia, highlighted the need to improve the geographical distribution of the CDM and emphasized that broadening the scope of eligible LULUCF activities provides this opportunity.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and others, insisted that its proposal serve as the basis for the group ef bf bds discussions.
Malaysia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES , INDIA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, among others, called for deleting the text.
Following a query from Japan on the funding for CGE meetings, the US expressed surprise to hear that funding came from the core budget, and said she could not agree to the text without further consultations.
 The EU fully and unequivocally supported the Ministerial Declaration and GHANA said the FCCC is “a matter of life and death,” and noted the need for the Declaration.
Switzerland, for the EIG, warned that attempting to change the balanced Durban package will put Doha at risk.
KUWAIT, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA sought a clear mandate for the contact group to consider Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
TANZANIA highlighted the G-77/China proposal, which would call upon Parties to reduce emissions of three gases and make efforts to control and phase out the other three.
Practical, financial and political considerations have all come into play as delegates listened to the offers from Canada , Germany , Switzerland  and Uruguay .
The US and New Zealand highlighted the important role of the private sector in ensuring the Fund functions.
AUSTRALIA referred to news received “over the wire” that work under the AWG-LCA had been suspended due to actions by the G-77/China and said this meant that work under the AWG-KP also had to be suspended.
On the draft decision text, Sudan, for the African Group, suggested brackets around “Agreement” to avoid prejudging the Paris outcome.
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia proposed changing the title of the decision and the agenda item to reflect the new title of the task group.
Spain, Colombia and others noted the importance of outreach activities in developing countries.
Expressing extreme disappointment over the inability to complete the mandate of the review, Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed that the findings of the review underscore that the “guardrail of 2 c2 b0C is wholly inadequate” and that “no outcome on the review is not an option.”
AOSIS and CHINA supported strengthening the mandate of the Adaptation Committee to oversee UNFCCC adaptation efforts.
The leaders of the US, China, Japan, the Russian Federation, Canada, Australia and Mexico were among 19 member states’ leaders present.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and INDIA sought clarification on the relationship between the Executive Board and national authorities.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported a mechanism for facilitating and coordinating developing country access to financing.
Regarding the headline statement, Belgium, supported by Norway, proposed including a definition of global warming, and agreed to the insertion of a footnote clarifying that global warming in the headline statement refers to a 30-year average in a period centered on 2017, assuming the recent rate of warming continues.
He explained that this was in order to avoid “paralysis.” Bolivia, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia said they could only support a consensus approach.
On the provision and generation of financial resources, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed concern that many of the proposals appeared to be donor/recipient arrangements.
VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, and KUWAIT objected to adopting incomplete rules.
 Germany highlighted the question of how to achieve the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective, and stressed that it was not the EU 92s intention to negotiate its 2oC target.
 The Chair said he will register the intention of WEOG and the Asian Group for the different posts, but the paragraph will say that the Asian Group and GRULAC did not present a candidate at this stage and they are requested to submit nominees by 18 April 1996.
SWITZERLAND, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, favored deferring work related to Articles 3.3 and 3.4  until the IPCC special report is available.
 The final round-table was co-chaired by Fernando Tudela Abad, Chief of Staff of the Secretariat for Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries, Mexico, and J fcrgen Trittin, Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Germany, on "assessment of progress at the national, regional and international levels to fulfill the promise and objective enshrined in the climate change agreements, including the scientific, information, policy and financial aspects."
The UMBRELLA GROUP, EIG, the EU, CANADA and others, opposed this.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, congratulated the entire world for achieving an agreement that “allows us to better achieve sustainable development.”
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, CANADA, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and MAURITIUS supported a menu approach to provide flexibility for countries with differing economic positions and national contexts.
Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , rejected the proposal by a "key Annex I country" tying the provision of financial assistance to some form of new emissions reduction commitment by developing countries.
Ecuador, supported by India, asked for an increase in the length for the cross-chapter paper on mountains from 10 to 15 pages, which was agreed.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and ARGENTINA stressed possible resolutions for legal issues raised.
CHINA said the G-77/China position clearly stated that developing countries would not accept new commitments under any guise.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, recalled the group’s earlier submission on an equity framework.
The Russian Federation, supported by the EU, China and Kuwait, said this proposal was completely unacceptable because it would cast doubt on the use of all six languages and revise a standard UN practice.
On consideration of Article 7.2 , the US, NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA and GERMANY questioned the timing for the submission of national communications and where this should be treated.
Egypt echoed the G-77/China’s view that their proposed amendment is “a statement of fact.” Saudi Arabia underlined the importance of financial support for developing countries to meet their reporting obligations.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to reflect in the report that the “vast majority” of parties support the establishment of a forum on response measures.
The AFRICAN GROUP reported that informal consultations among the G-77/China had produced two options, but that there had not been enough time for engagement with other parties.
France, Germany and China questioned whether work on aerosols is sufficiently advanced to give rise to work on inventories.
The EU, with Switzerland, suggested that all three articles be discussed together, so as to reach a single decision.
The US, supported by NORWAY, emphasized that reporting and review are an opportunity to build capacity.
GUYANA, supported by the PHILIPPINES, highlighted that the 2ºC target can only be achieved if REDD+ is part of the solution.
SAUDI ARABIA, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, said the paragraphs were applicable to all elements of reporting and should be retained.
CANADA and the US did not agree.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, said adaptation finance should be considered under means of implementation and that activities relating to migration and displacement due to climate-related events should be emphasized.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with the procedure used for adoption of the Geneva Declaration, calling for transparent decision making.
On the way forward after SB-12, the G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS, cautioned against using a "fast track", highlighting that he did not consider it to be part of the BAPA.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the ADP’s outcome must be in line with the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention and emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
Noting the need for an enabling environment and the potential of the CDM, CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the private sector should be the main vehicle for technology transfer.
Malaysia, Senegal, Namibia, Brazil and Eritrea underscored the need for Article 6 activities to be country-driven.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized the need to leave Panama with clarity on the road ahead, and “a negotiating text in hand.”
In the general discussion that followed, several participants expressed their appreciation at the support provided by Finland and the US for projects to enhance regional capacity in tracking climate patterns.
  On the report of the Adaptation Fund Board , the AFRICAN GROUP, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and others called for rapid operationalization of the Fund and URUGUAY and CUBA urged a decision in Poznań.
Viet Nam, for ASEAN, and INDONESIA highlighted stress-tolerant crop varieties, alternate wetting and drying in rice cultivation, and integrated cropping calendars.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , expressed concern over systematic attempts to lower expectations for Copenhagen and recalled that, according to the mandate agreed in Bali, the AWG-LCA should complete its work in 2009.
Sweden, for the EU, as well as INDONESIA, SIERRA LEONE, the PHILIPPINES and ZAMBIA called for SBSTA 31 to prioritize REDD.
 In the afternoon, Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, and Jordan presented information related to their biennial update reports.
On governance, China, Japan and others expressed concern over recent delays in project registration and increase in review requests by the CDM Executive Board, as well as over unpredictability in the Board’s decision making.
Colombia, opposed by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, suggested using the Secretariat 92s Note on the WTO for future discussion on this issue.
JAPAN supported halving global emissions by 2050, while INDIA stressed that the Convention does not reference legally binding emission reduction commitments for developing countries.
The EU, UMBRELLA GROUP and TUVALU said both organizations had apologized and responded promptly.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed hope that ministers will be able to take the necessary political decisions.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , and Lesotho, for LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , noted with concern the possible gap between the first and second commitment periods and urged concluding work under the AWG-KP in Cancún.
MEXICO and many others, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, supported draft text on having an in-session workshop in 2011 on ways to enhance the engagement of observers and their means of participation.
SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA, OMAN, EGYPT, ALGERIA, QATAR, PAKISTAN, KUWAIT, and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES supported the additions.
The G-77/CHINA, AFRICA GROUP and SAMOA, opposed by US, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, urged the establishment of an adaptation fund based on a levy applied to all three mechanisms.
The US, THAILAND, PERU and TUVALU announced their signature to the Kyoto Protocol.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Uganda, for LDCs, and the PHILIPPINES highlighted means of implementation and support as a possible way forward.
India, Bolivia, Nicaragua, Belarus, Cuba, Viet Nam, Iran and the Russian Federation favored the first option, in which the COP would reiterate its invitation to each party to communicate to the Secretariat its INDCs towards achieving the objective of the Convention.
Cautioning against bias towards mitigation actions, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested adding text on MRV of Annex I parties e2 80 99 support to developing countries for the achievement of their INDCs.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, the need to: work towards increasing the level of ambition; agree on global peaking of emissions; agree on mid-term finance; and clarify the application of the principles and provisions of the Convention.
INDIA, NEPAL and THAILAND highlighted the need to keep REDD-plus separate from NAMAs.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed dissatisfaction with discussions on pre-2020 ambition and called for a results-oriented approach.
 Discussion also focused on whether CCS 93is 94 or 93could be 94 a mitigation option, with FRANCE, SWITZERLAND, GERMANY, ZAMBIA, AUSTRIA, and others saying that it 93could be 94, while SAUDI ARABIA, AUSTRALIA, and the US supported 93is 94 with some qualifying text.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed disappointment, noting that the text is “unbalanced,” failing to reflect the main elements of the Bali Action Plan.
CANADA said the provisional agenda correctly referred to a proposal and, supported by several Annex I Parties and UZBEKISTAN, but opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA, stressed retaining the issue as worded in the provisional agenda.
The EU drew comparisons to the non-compliance procedures under the Montreal Protocol, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION characterized the non-compliance procedures as “extremely complicated.”
GRENADA, supported by THAILAND, suggested deleting the requirement that members must be unaffiliated with any government.
The G-77/China expressed concerns over parallel financial initiatives, while the US and Japan highlighted their national initiatives.
The organizations included: the US EPA, OECD, UNEP, IPCC, World Bank, IMF, FAO, US Department of Energy, IIASA, Carnegie Mellon, Oxford Consulting, the Brookings Institute, Alliance to Save Energy, relevant research institutes at Stanford, Yale, MIT and Harvard, EDF and the NRDC.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, AILAC, NORWAY, the US, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA welcomed the emphasis on the role of non-state actors.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, supported by Saudi Arabia and opposed by the Umbrella Group, and the EU, called for amending the agenda item on the NDC registry by removing a reference to Paris Agreement Article 4.12  from its title.
JAPAN, NORWAY and the EU favored the “actual emission approach,” but also encouraged the submission of data using the “potential approach.” The EU stated that Parties should report the best available estimate of actual emissions, to the extent that national circumstances permit.
The issue was taken up in response to a request by Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, supported by other countries, to include an agenda item on 93Reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries: approaches to stimulate action.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of these paragraphs.
BAHAMAS, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for a Review of the adequacy of the long-term global goal and opposed efforts to extend the scope of the Review.
The G-77/China and the US opposed establishing a process for considering the TAR in COP and SB agenda items.
The UK and Austria recommended adding a second plenary session next year in order to have enough time to respond to the IAC Review; however, after further discussion, the Panel agreed that a four-day plenary session would be preferable to two two-day plenary sessions because of both time and resource constraints.
Expressing disappointment at the lack of a more substantive outcome, the G-77/China, opposed by the EU, proposed an alternative text noting that the group had 93failed to reach conclusions.
On  , SWITZERLAND, the EU and NORWAY proposed drawing from the Lima guidance on INDCs.
CROATIA, supported by CG-11, stressed its special circumstances.
Cuba and the Dominican Republic called for consideration of the special circumstances of small island developing states and their vulnerable food systems.
Opposed by the Russian Federation, Belgium suggested that Bureau and Chair elections should be staggered.
AUSTRALIA, the COOK ISLANDS and GRENADA also welcomed the upcoming UNFCCC special event on observer participation at COP 17.
SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to consider the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report in 2014, with NEW ZEALAND cautioning against encouraging “fireworks” of reviews and duplication of work.
AOSIS, the Africa Group, China and others also supported the adoption of the compliance mechanism by a COP/MOP 1 decision combined with the consideration of an amendment process.
On language stating that anthropogenic greenhouse gas increase has  very likely caused most of the observed increase in global temperature, China and Saudi Arabia proposed using the term qualifying the probability of very likely, suggesting the use of likely or “increasingly” very likely.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, noted the desire of developing countries to diversify their economies and emphasized developed countries e2 80 99 historical responsibility.
CANADA said the first task is stocktaking of the compliance-related elements and, with NEW ZEALAND and the US, underscored the importance of tracking other groups’ work.
In bilateral consultations, parties discussed the possible forthcoming QELRO submissions from Belarus and Kazakhstan.
In response to a request from Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, she clarified that a draft informal, non-negotiated note would be made available to parties.
New Zealand, with Malaysia and Australia, noted that there was no representative from Region V  on the WGIII Bureau, and that the revised text leaves open the possibility that someone from Region V is not on the WGIII Bureau.
Japan and the EU drew attention to their recent ratifications, and encouraged other Parties to follow suit.
ef bf bd DENMARK, opposed by AUSTRALIA, and supported by CHILE and AUSTRIA, called for referencing biomass in this section.
CHINA, UGANDA, BRAZIL, INDIA and ARGENTINA supported establishment of a contact group to discuss methodological issues and guidance of ICAO and IMO.
The US, SINGAPORE and SWITZERLAND expressed preference for not including a footnote.
e2 80 9d MEXICO and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the equal importance of adaptation and mitigation.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, expressed concern over “regression” in areas such as adaptation and capacity building.
On time management, Egypt, for the G-77/China, expressed hope that the additional session would cover PAWP items under all three bodies.
Chile, for AILAC, indicated that developed countries need to do more to support extant arrangements.
The US, supported by CANADA, pointed to the need to consider FCCC resources for the work of the IPCC.
The Czech Republic, for the EUROPEAN UNION , noted the upcoming meeting of the Group of 20.
The EU stressed that it is premature to decide whether the text will become a COP/MOP decision or conclusions, while South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, hoped that they would achieve more than a conclusion.
The EU said the fact that large portions of the text, including on new market mechanisms and consequential Protocol amendments, have not yet been discussed was “very, very worrying.” Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, supported discussions of the text on consequential Protocol amendments.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the importance of providing regionally relevant information and datasets, and SAUDI ARABIA called for addressing regional issues in the Working Group reports.
On the sub-section on principles, the US, with the EU, questioned whether it was necessary here and suggested concentrating on the operational part of the capacity building section.
On future revisions to the text, SAUDI ARABIA requested retaining the current text as a separate option, with NEW ZEALAND saying that it reserves the right to have a third option if parties “go down the option route.”
KENYA supported a review mechanism, and MEXICO called for robust MRV.
INDIA, supported by IRAN, called for the operationalization of the FCCC provisions relating to state-of-the-art environmentally sound technologies , with supporting provisions in the new legal instrument.
Concerning the CDM, on the issue of nuclear activities, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, presented an option based on the relevant Marrakesh text.
INDONESIA, SWITZERLAND and others supported this, calling for initial discussion on what will be financed, though BRAZIL noted the likely complexity of considering rules of eligibility.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, lamented that progress remained uneven across the PAWP and that parties are not leaving Bangkok with a textual basis for negotiations.
France, supported by the EU, requested reinserting reference to deep decarbonization, which Saudi Arabia opposed.
The draft conclusions on the status of the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.9  were agreed with brackets remaining around the reference to the three other decisions on LDCs, at the request of the US.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for a rule-based framework and robust MRV for any new mechanisms, and stressed that emission reduction targets must be primarily achieved by domestic means.
Many expressed their hope that the Protocol would enter into force by the August 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development , with the EU and Japan announcing their ratifications just prior to SB-16.
On effective participation in the UNFCCC process, the EU and JAPAN presented views on options listed by the Secretariat to promote participation by NGOs and indigenous peoples.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, explained that its option for accounting for forest management was introduced because of concern with the reference levels approach.
Recalling recent early-season cyclones, Maldives, for AOSIS, welcomed progress in the research dialogue, and noted incremental progress on Article 6, saying that market mechanisms can help achieve ambition, but environmental integrity must not be eroded.
The US questioned why a non-peer reviewed study should be included, while UK, France, Germany, the European Community  and others stressed that the high-profile Stern Review had already been presented at UNFCCC COP12, and ignoring it would seem 93weird.
On Thursday, 3 December, Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China , asked to include details on a long-term vision and urged avoiding prescriptive language.
Yemen, speaking for the Group of 77 and China , said the text needed a more balanced and equitable treatment of many issues, however supported starting negotiations on the basis of the Chair’s text.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for bold action and a strong legally-binding outcome that provides clarity on rules for the flexibility mechanisms and for land use, land-use change and forestry .
Several parties, including CHINA and BRAZIL supported inviting parties to submit their views on all elements of the MPGs.
Tuvalu and the Russian Federation, opposed by Colombia, proposed deleting the sentence.
Burkina Faso, on behalf of the Africa Group, underscored the high expectations of the international community that COP-7 would be a success.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, insisted that these were separate issues.
Parties discussed an agenda item on small island developing states , with the US noting overlaps with other agenda items, and Tuvalu stressing that removing this item would send a signal that the international community is not concerned about SIDS 92 welfare.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the Protocol is the only instrument in place to harmonize efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and stressed that the AWG-KP should be “steered away from” the AWG-LCA to maintain the distinction between the two tracks.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and UZBEKISTAN said that capacity building was necessary to take full advantage of the CDM.
During discussions in a Wednesday evening facilitated group, parties exchanged views on proposals from the G-77/China and EIG, but continued to differ on a common interpretation of the mandate of workstream 2.
Several developing countries, including Peru and Colombia, stressed other vulnerabilities.
AOSIS and AILAC called for a clear definition of climate finance, with AILAC stressing this will help avoid double counting.
BOLIVIA and TUVALU welcomed the participation of indigenous peoples.
BANGLADESH supported the AOSIS protocol with the German elements paper as the basis of the exchange of views.
This round-table was co-chaired by Yuriko Koike, Minister of Environment, Japan, and Tadashi Lometo, Minister of Health and Environment, Marshall Islands.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, suggested a register, based on Annex I submissions, of available technologies and how developing countries can utilize them.
JAPAN, with the US, AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, said that the provisions on finance should be dealt with by the finance contact group.
The G-77/CHINA and the AFRICAN GROUP stated that the AWGLCA should focus on enhancing implementation of existing commitments under the Convention and Protocol, and stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, suggested reflecting that some parties do not see the need for this section.
JAPAN, with MEXICO, requested that boundaries be defined for spillover effects, and AUSTRALIA suggested that these could relate to programmes and measures taken by parties in relation to obligations.
CHINA, PERU, and MALAYSIA urged moving ahead by focusing on practical measures.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted problems faced by non-Annex I parties in preparing their national communications, particularly with regard to access to funding through the GEF.
On paragraphs 17-22 , many parties, including CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA and BRAZIL, opposed consideration of post-communication and support for INDCs at this stage.
Swaziland, for the African Group, said the ADP should result in a strengthened multilateral, rule-based climate change regime, emphasizing the need for significant scaling up of developed country mitigation ambition.
PAKISTAN, MEXICO, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CHINA underlined historical responsibility and noted the differing capacities among countries to address climate change.
The EU, NORWAY and the US suggested ways of consolidating and tightening the text.
On the time remaining in Bonn, the G-77/CHINA, the LMDCs and BRAZIL suggested discussing cross-cutting issues, and, with Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and Angola, for the LDCs, addressing workstream 2.
ARGENTINA, supported by FIJI, suggested 20-member TAPs, appointed by governments, with geographic representation.
TANZANIA, supported by MEXICO, suggested that subnational entities and local authorities act through their national governments.
 During discussions on projections, the Netherlands, supported by the UK, Italy, Belgium, and Cuba, requested that a new figure accompany the table of warming projections.
Cuba, for a number of developing countries, with Bolivia, Iran and Kenya, for the African Group, emphasized that actions to address bunker fuels should be guided by the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and that any market mechanisms in these sectors contradicting this principle would increase costs and affect trade.
Chile, for AILAC, called for defining public financing.
On China 92s proposal to include a new section on the implications of Article 18 , the US said an amendment would be needed if binding consequences were to be adopted as part of the compliance system.
The US called for clarifying the policy/methodology distinction, while COLOMBIA and others said the two are interrelated.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA and KUWAIT, objected that no new or substantial issues were slated for discussion and questioned whether the meeting warranted ministerial attendance.
The EU outlined their proposal for sectoral crediting and trading, noting many areas of convergence with proposals by the Republic of Korea and New Zealand.
 On IPRs, Bangladesh called for patented technology to be made freely available to LDCs and SIDS and for compulsory licensing to be reflected in the text
AOSIS, supported by the PHILIPPINES and the MALDIVES, said the SAR is sufficient to allow agreement on QELROs.
Kiribati, Ethiopia and Kuwait expressed concern over the minimum contribution stated in paragraph 7.
Speakers from Senegal and Colombia underlined the need to include technology needs assessments in NDCs.
AOSIS, with CHINA, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and AILAC, called for annual high-level engagement.
On emissions from international aviation and maritime transport, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and QATAR supported deletion of the section, with SAUDI ARABIA stating that Protocol Article 2.2  would have to be amended before discussion on this issue could take place.
The US, supported by NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and NORWAY, proposed starting with discussions on actions.
On the agenda , Malaysia, supported by China, Brazil, Egypt, India and others, highlighted the sensitivity of the agenda sub-item on information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
CANADA, with the EU and G-77/CHINA, said governments must respond to the observation needs of the UNFCCC.
AUSTRALIA supported a new legally-binding instrument, with specific obligations for a broad set of parties, while PALAU called for a new protocol.
Switzerland, for the EIG, thanked the Chair for his proposed agenda and for including additional items.
CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA stated that the current process works well, and opposed an additional process or any modifications at this time.
Germany, for the EU, expressed disappointment that these discussions could not be concluded but highlighted the progress made in “recognizing the importance of an effective institutional arrangement, access to financing and suitable indicators for monitoring and evaluating effectiveness to the development, deployment, diffusion and transfer of environmentally sound technologies to developing countries.” Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the proposed multilateral fund on technology transfer, which has been advocated by developing countries, is preventing consensus on this issue.
Argentina, supported by AOSIS, emphasized the importance of information gathering and maintaining this issue on the agenda.
The EU suggested also registering outcomes of actions while India stressed that there should be no review of adequacy of developing country actions.
Chair Jos e9 Romero said that new texts on improving the guidelines had been received from the EU and from AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US.
NORWAY, opposed by SAMOA, suggested removing reference to election of alternate Board members.
The US underscored the importance of discussing the connection between vulnerability, impacts and adaptation, while the UK called for achieving a balance between the three elements.
 Switzerland, with Slovenia, proposed a new sentence on the power sector response to carbon prices.
On Tuesday, 29 October, the contact group continued discussions on the report of the GEF, with Parties failing to reach agreement on negotiating text tabled by the EU and Canada.
While noting the relevance of the topic, the US, seconded by Brazil, expressed caution due to the IPCC’s financial situation and the timing of the meeting and appropriate prioritization of IPCC activities.
Nauru, for AOSIS, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the Gambia, for LDCs, supported a five-year second commitment period from 2013-2017 to avoid locking in the level of ambition and to be able to respond to the findings of the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change .
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, PERU, MALAYSIA and CHINA, opposed by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, supported the COP, rather than each Annex I Party, selecting the criteria for applying the definition of "forest" in the first commitment period.
AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, proposed deleting chapeau language on an assessment of demonstrable progress.
Benin, France, Sudan and others preferred keeping them.
 This issue was first taken up by the COP plenary on Wednesday, 9 December when Malta outlined its proposal to join Annex I , noting that by joining the EU in 2004 it has taken on responsibilities in line with those of Annex I parties.
SOUTH AFRICA, for the G-77/CHINA, noted her preference for one body with two branches subject to certain conditions, including that: the enforcement branch apply only to Annex I countries; the composition of both branches reflect geographic distribution; and the branches have clearly delineated mandates.
 Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, that: the legal status of the second commitment period is not negotiable; a five-year commitment period is needed to avoid locking in low levels of ambition; and that not all Annex I parties have submitted adequate, or any, information on QELROs.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that setting a goal for governments’ efforts “needs to be substantiated by proven science,” provided by the IPCC.
TIMOR LESTE and SENEGAL urged linking adaptation and long-term mitigation measures.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed referring to the findings.
Nauru, for AOSIS, lamented that the adopted package is deficient in terms of mitigation ambition and finance, stating that it “only promises that something might materialize in the future.” He further expressed his expectation that the 2014 climate change leaders’ summit announced by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will work to close the ambition gap.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need to deliver on pre-2020 action and support, including through the facilitative dialogue on action and support.
 On Wednesday, 9 November, Saudi Arabia, for the Asia-Pacific Region, said Fiji had offered to preside over COP 23, to be held at UNFCCC headquarters in Bonn, noting the group’s final decision was pending.
The G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, and Bangladesh, for the LDCs, noted missing elements, such as indigenous peoples e2 80 99 knowledge and practices, economic diversification co-benefits and response measures.
The US, with the EU, said the impression of general agreement was misleading.
CHINA, NORWAY and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported an adaptation framework.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the importance of capitalizing on Cancun’s momentum and urged parties to ensure full operationalization of the Cancun Agreements and the realization of the BAP, while ensuring environmental integrity.
AUSTRALIA, the UK, the NETHERLANDS, and BANGLADESH said that given the timing and substance of the AR4, the IPCC guidelines for the commencement of special reports, and resource constraints, it is not appropriate to consider such a special report at this time.
India, for BASIC, highlighted the need to maintain the delicate balance under the two-track approach and emphasized the importance of equitable access to sustainable development.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said “real progress” at COP 22 demonstrates that “the spirit of Paris remains strong.”
South Africa, for the African Group, said an aspirational goal would be acceptable if underpinned by binding and ambitious targets for developed countries, including targets of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and at least 50% by 2050.
Regarding discussion on financing for the readiness activities phase, AUSTRALIA and CANADA proposed addressing commonalities in the objectives.
JAPAN and SWITZERLAND suggested postponing further guidance to the GEF until the comprehensive review is completed.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need for: balance between mitigation and adaptation; and finance to ensure ambition is enhanced, highlighting public long-term finance and not transferring the financing burden to developing countries.
SINGAPORE and PAKISTAN said developed countries should demonstrate leadership.
On harvested wood products, CANADA, supported by NEW ZEALAND and NORWAY, proposed a workshop to build capacity and advance knowledge, while the EU stressed submissions by Parties.
e2 80 9d SWITZERLAND and NORWAY proposed adding e2 80 9cwithout prejudice to e2 80 9d the e2 80 9cstructure e2 80 9d or e2 80 9ccontent e2 80 9d of the final outcome.
Regarding issuance and cancellation of assigned amounts  related to Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4, the G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU and US, suggested referring to "additions" and "subtractions" from AA in the guidelines under Article 7.
 The President announced the following nominations: Africa " Mauritania and Zimbabwe; Asia " India and Japan; Eastern Europe " Hungary and the Russian Federation; Latin America and the Caribbean " Antigua and Barbuda and Argentina; Western Europe and Others " Australia and Germany; and AOSIS " Samoa.
KUWAIT highlighted the need to consider the diversity of NDC types in the features and ARGENTINA noted that this is important in the identification of specific information that needs to be provided.
On the nature of future activities, Canada, the US and Japan, opposed by the EU, proposed reference to "future work" rather than a "consultative process."
South Africa, for the Africa Group, supported by the G-77/China, AOSIS, and the Russian Federation, called for separate contact groups on adaptation and mitigation.
Responding to BRAZIL e2 80 99s question on Spain e2 80 99s decision to implement a tax on fluorinated gases of e2 82 ac20 per tCO2e, he explained it came in response to a projected doubling of related emissions and the insufficiency of existing legislation in curbing their use.
The US, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed by many others, called for reference to the objective in the preamble rather than a separate section.
Brazil emphasized the importance of advancing all aspects of the Durban outcome and highlighted the main focus of the Durban Platform to create a new legal instrument under the UNFCCC as “an important opportunity that must not be lost.” South Africa underscored the importance of trust and mutual reassurance, upon which the Durban Package was based, including agreement to look at the level of ambition.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, noted preference for a net-net approach, with a cap on the use of LULUCF.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, preferred continuing the roundtables and said he looked forward to concrete, substantive discussions in those fora.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, suggested using the draft text proposed in Doha for discussions and urged, with TUVALU and TANZANIA, a focus on adaptation, not mitigation.
JAPAN, the EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS supported the idea of an IPCC expert meeting on harvested products.
With SWITZERLAND, the EU recognized that there is a link between the Montreal and Kyoto Protocols.
CHINA, supported by the EU and G-77/CHINA, suggested focusing on the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects of adaptation and mitigation.
Australia, for several Umbrella Group members, noted convergence on many issues and highlighted key elements that require agreement, including an eight-year second commitment period and expanded participation in market mechanisms.
This proposal was opposed by AUSTRALIA, the US and SAUDI ARABIA.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said that provision of financial resources must be guided by developing countries’ priorities, which he said should be contained in the overarching principle.
New Zealand noted that the topics in the SR are of critical importance to small island nations, and Sudan underscored the urgency of the issue.
On further work, Maldives, for AOSIS, and others called for setting a workplan through 2018.
On the application of differentiation in the context of time frames, BRAZIL, supported by INDIA, said the application of differentiation would depend on the context of aggregate or individual review/assessment.
Several speakers, including the G-77/China, EU and the Central Group 11 , supported entry into force of the Protocol in time for the WSSD.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said national communications are important and called for continued flexibility by the GEF in approving funds for SIDS.
France, on behalf of the EU, and supported by Australia, said that Annex I Parties should not use JI to meet their present commitments.
ICA continued in the afternoon with the presentation of their BURs by Namibia, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Singapore and South Africa.
SAINT LUCIA, with TUVALU, expressed concern about taking up technical issues without further political clarity.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, requested confirmation that the chairs of the open-ended drafting groups would be the chairs and facilitators who had already been working on these issues under the AWG.
On the proposed additional meeting, BOLIVIA stressed the need to ensure sufficient participation of non-Annex I Parties, and the G-77/CHINA called for regional workshops.
Sudan called for some kind of good practice guidance on adaptation, and with Jamaica and others, emphasized reference to adaptation planning.
On finance commitments, Malaysia, for the G-77/China, said developed countries should provide financial support in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
A number of delegates agreed to work on the basis of the Co-Chairs 92 proposals, while SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and the UAE said these drafts did not reflect their concerns and sought to proceed on the basis of an earlier version.
While some, including Brazil and Argentina, would prefer not crediting the destruction of HFC-23 in new facilities under the CDM, China and others support doing so, but have so far been unable to agree on practical solutions to address perverse incentives.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, noted new institutional arrangements for strengthened institutions may be required.
COSTA RICA supported allocating some time for this discussion to help crystallize the work in other sub-groups and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said a specific slot on mitigation actions by all countries could help to better understand intentions and aspirations of parties.
GERMANY said the EU would build a coalition of like-minded countries willing to commit themselves to timetables and targets for increasing renewable energy use.
Germany highlighted the Petersburg Climate Dialogue convened jointly by Germany and Mexico in early May.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said the ADP should take as its departure point the results of the other AWGs.
Pakistan and Egypt preferred “legal parity” between mitigation and adaptation.
INDIA, SAMOA and BRAZIL expressed concern at this new proposal.
 ASEAN and the US held their first Leaders’ Meeting on 15 November 2009, in Singapore, also addressing climate change and energy.
 Germany, for the EU, stated the EU’s commitment to cut emissions by 30% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels if other developed countries follow suit and economically advanced developing countries “contribute adequately according to their responsibilities and respective capabilities.” She urged extending the carbon market, addressing emissions from international aviation and maritime transportation, and progress on the Adaptation Fund and budget.
Sierra Leone stressed that less rigid criteria should apply to the LDCs.
South Africa, on behalf of the G-77/China, noted preference for one body with two branches subject to certain conditions, including that the enforcement branch apply only to Annex I countries, and the composition of both branches reflect equitable geographic distribution.
The draft decision on criteria for joint implementation, adopted in future document A/AC.237/WG.1/L.29, recommends that COP-1 continue consideration of JI criteria based on views expressed and three separate draft texts, future documents A/AC.237/WG.I/L.30 from the G-77 and China, A/AC.237/WG.1/L.31 from the EU and A/AC.237/WG.1/L.32 from the US.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Trinidad and Tobago, for CARICOM, proposed a compliance committee with enforcement and facilitative branches.
St. Lucia, for AOSIS, emphasized prioritizing: operationalizing the accounting structure; establishing environmental integrity safeguards; sustainable development provisions; and, with Egypt, for the Arab Group, allocating a share of proceeds to adaptation.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to engage the private sector.
Argentina, supported by Colombia and Ecuador, also called for consideration of funds to be given to Latin America’s regional climate research centers.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with very little engagement from developed countries and a serious Convention implementation deficit.
Indonesia, with China, stressed that NAMAs should be voluntary and cannot be used for offsetting by developed countries.
 On the coverage for greenhouse gas  emissions, the EU, the US, EGYPT, IRAN and MAURITIUS favored covering all GHGs.
COLOMBIA and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, proposed asking what the outcome should be.
On the logical flow of the text, Australia, supported by Canada, New Zealand, the US and the EIG, suggested placing paragraphs on contributions under the legal agreement before those on the scale of resources.
CROATIA underscored that such a restrictive approach is the reason Croatia finds itself in the difficult situation and that referring the case back to the Enforcement Branch would not lead to a fair and just outcome.
The EU, CANADA, CHINA, JAPAN, IRAN, SOUTH AFRICA and the US opposed a triggering role for the Secretariat.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said work under the ADP should include all pillars of the BAP.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said that developed countries were denying their historical responsibility and their corresponding commitment to provide financial resources and transfer technology.
The conclusions relating to Canada 92s proposal on cleaner or less greenhouse gas emitting energy were adopted, with the EU emphasizing the need for well defined terms of reference for the workshop.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, supported by Algeria, for the African Group, Grenada, for AOSIS, Lesotho, for the LDCs, and many others, expressed concern at attempts to merge the two negotiating tracks, and at the call for a single legal outcome in Copenhagen.
The US suggested addressing deliverables and, with the European Union , highlighted the GCF’s initial capitalization of US$9.7 billion prior to Lima.
China, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , called for starting textual negotiations as soon as possible, and for reflecting differentiation, the nationally-determined nature of contributions and flexibility for developing countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, and PAKISTAN said some of the elements contained in the annexes are “fundamental” and should therefore be reflected in the main text.
Marcin Korolec, Minister of Environment, Poland, for the EU, called for a roadmap leading to a global comprehensive and legally binding framework.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, MALAYSIA and the AFRICAN GROUP urged for a limited number of additional groups, given the constraints facing small delegations.
Chair Ashe highlighted recent Protocol ratifications by Turkey, Kazakhstan and Zimbabwe.
On Friday, when discussing the revised outline, China and Saudi Arabia suggested adding reference to financial flows to developing countries in the bullet point on investment needs.
Switzerland, with Belgium and Egypt, supported the Secretariat’s proposal of a specific end date, noting that governments want clarity on issues that have budgetary implications.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern with unresolved issues, emphasizing the need to address the mitigation ambition gap.
Algeria, for the African Group, said the AWG-LCA must set commitments for developed countries that are not Protocol parties that are comparable to those taken by other developed countries under the Protocol in the second commitment period.
94 This was opposed by the EU and some developing countries, while AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN favored its inclusion.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that the word "state-of-the-art" was included in the SBSTA report.
Belize, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM , underscored the urgency of adaptation and stressed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol immediately following the first one, and called for a legally-binding agreement in South Africa.
Qatar, for the G-77/China, looked forward to COP-10.
COLOMBIA outlined post-2012 considerations and ARGENTINA proposed sectoral CDM projects.
The G-77, supported by the US and Australia, proposed deleting the bracketed phrase in paragraph 1, if 2 remains in the text.
South Africa, for the African Group, offered a proposal to insert a collective mid-term goal and then agree on a process to negotiate pledges reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2020.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested conclusions that acknowledge the process and call for raised ambition, and with NORWAY, suggested a process beyond COP 24.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, called for a follow-up agreement to the Protocol in order for industrialized countries to continue, and to intensify, their emission reduction commitments.
In the discussion in the informal high-level Plenary on Tuesday, 21 November, the UK, on behalf of the EU, responded to the US proposal.
Swaziland, for the African Group, expressed concern over the slow progress in the AWG-KP discussions, and said that Annex I parties should not use the “excuse” of national circumstances and domestic laws as a justification for leaving the Protocol, staying out of the second commitment period, or not taking up QELROs.
He added that he was "shocked" to see studies on methane emissions in China and India that were not based on field work in these countries.
The US and Japan wanted to retain the entire paragraph.
The EU and New Zealand indicated that there was no precedent on consideration of IPCC assessment reports by COP/MOPs, and with others, supported the inclusion of AR4 on COP and COP/MOP agendas.
KUWAIT, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted his country’s opposition to sectoral crediting.
PAKISTAN underlined long-term cooperative action as a more important element than a long-term goal, while JAPAN stressed that a long-term goal is the key element.
Barbados, for AOSIS, urged agreement on Annex I aggregate emission reductions of at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020.
Acting IPCC Chair El Gizouli was universally lauded for his dedication to the IPCC, with many participants, including Mali, Saudi Arabia and the US, in addition to others, noting his personal sacrifice in taking over the role of IPCC Chair in February 2015.
IPCC Chair Lee supported by Germany, Denmark and the US, proposed that the Panel adopt the outline of the report, as presented, while allowing the Task Force Bureau to discuss details.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the central importance of funding from public sources that is additional, adequate, predictable and sustainable.
IRAN and BURKINA FASO called for enhanced data collection at regional and subregional levels.
India underscored: lack of clarity on how developed countries’ contributions to mitigation defined according to national circumstances, as proposed by the US, would address the closure of the pre-2020 ambition gap; and the need for clear milestones for provision of finance and technology.
Thailand, with the UK, supported including a gender dimension, and the Democratic Republic of Congo referred to the elderly.
The US and Australia supported the need for a reserve fund, but Japan and the Russian Federation expressed concern over the amount.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed the need for more specific information from parties to “chisel down into what the numbers actually mean.”
The Gambia, for the LDCs, highlighted research and systematic observation and enhancement of the NWP to support adaptation implementation in LDCs.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA highlighted decision text that establishes a SBSTA work programme on a land-based approach.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported and suggested it feed into the UN Secretary-General’s 2019 Climate Summit.
  When this issue was taken up by SBSTA on 30 November, the EU, supported by Saudi Arabia, said forests in exhaustion should be addressed through the REDD+ discussions under the AWG-LCA and LULUCF discussions under the AWG-KP.
Many parties supported an aspirational global goal for 2050, although some, such as the G-77/China and African Group, added that developed countries must take the lead with ambitious and binding targets in the short term .
The US and NEW ZEALAND stated that they would not object to voluntary commitments from non-Annex I Parties.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and Norway, stressed the need for text supporting predictable and adequate funding levels.
ARGENTINA, opposed by the EU and others, proposed that the SCCF be used to finance activities that are complementary to those funded by the climate change focal areas of the GEF, the LDC Fund, and bilateral and multilateral sources.
Canada and Japan highlighted parallel discussions on market mechanisms under the AWG-LCA.
On mitigation by developed countries, JAPAN stressed the need to address the legal framework for commitments by Protocol non-parties, including the US.
Noting the need for urgent action to combat climate change, Saudi Arabia, Nicaragua, Ecuador, Algeria, Norway, Mexico, and UNEP expressed preference for Option B, with Saudi Arabia expressing support for producing the report by 2022.
EGYPT, with CHINA, endorsed differentiation between elements requiring Protocol amendment and those that can be adopted as COP/MOP decisions.
On industrial uses of carbon dioxide, Co-Chair Davidson noted that the draft text incorporated a proposal by Canada, which was supported by the US, to note that enhanced oil recovery  is excluded from the statement that the potential for industrial uses of carbon dioxide is small.
Upon considering SBSTA’s cooperation with the IPCC, many delegations, including the EU, AUSTRALIA, the US, CANADA and MYANMAR, endorsed the IPCC’s efforts.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need to keep the issue of environmental integrity at the forefront in discussions on the Kyoto Protocol’s methodological issues.
Japan, Singapore and the EU said the IMO and ICAO are the suitable places to address these issues.
While some SIDS wanted a specific COP agenda item on SIDS 92 issues, including on the Mauritius Strategy, other parties, including the US, argued that it was covered under other items and should not be dealt with under multiple agendas, or should even be removed altogether.
The EU identified divergence on interchangeability between CERs and ERUs, and, with JAPAN, noted convergence on cost effectiveness, environmental benefits, equity and transparency.
Parties welcomed the adoption of the draft COP/MOP decision, with the G-77/China describing the Fund as an 93innovative solidarity fund, 94 and the EU noting it built 93new trust 94 among parties.
The Lead Authors suggested, and France endorsed, a new sentence on North America  93experiencing locally severe economic damage, plus substantial ecosystem, social and cultural disruption, 94 with the US opposing and requesting to examine its basis.
Following a request for clarification from INDONESIA on the implications of Germany’s offer to confer legal capacity, the AFB Chair explained that Germany had presented draft legislation, which involved passing the bill through Parliament but that the process could take up to a year.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, expressed concern over slow progress, and called for a clear mandate from this COP to co-chairs and co-facilitators that will allow parties to move to substantive and technical discussions at SB 48.
South Africa and Mexico expressed concern with combining the economics and ethics chapters noting that these disciplines are “uneasy bedfellows.” Norway and the US supported including cultural dimensions.
MALAYSIA and BELGIUM noted that the Special Report referred to 20 - 40% global fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions as being technically suitable for capture, and proposed deleting reference to economic suitability.
CHINA, the EU and the US debated at length proposed language on methods for and calculation of an outcome of the contribution of AIJ projects, with China arguing for removal of "methods."
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said no further decisions were required for the AWG-LCA to terminate in Doha.
Colombia, supported by Grenada, the Philippines and Barbados, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, called for a joint discussion of emission reductions by all Annex I countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a limit of 2°C on global temperature rise and a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
On  , Afghanistan, with Bolivia, underscored participation of indigenous peoples.
SAUDI ARABIA, GAMBIA, COLOMBIA, IRAN and INDIA opposed any consideration of voluntary commitments at COP-4.
Parties then debated the G-77/China proposal, with Malaysia, for the LIKE MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES , and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterating the importance that views expressed during pre-consultation meetings be fairly reflected.
On the timing of NDC communication, Jordan, for the LMDCs, with the LDCs, stated that guidance on features, information and accounting would only apply to the subsequent cycle of NDCs.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested the following benchmarks for a successful outcome in Doha: an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol effective as of 1 January 2013; ambitious QELROs by Annex I parties; limited access to flexibility mechanisms by Annex I parties that have not adopted commitments for the second commitment period; and addressing carry-over of surplus AAUs.
 Regarding heavy precipitation, France requested the inclusion of additional information about the time and intensity scales, and Egypt asked to reflect the fact that some regions suffer greatly from a precipitation deficiency.
BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and LESOTHO supported this, stressing the need to start working promptly.
AOSIS recalled that the modalities under discussion are to apply in the first commitment period only, and, with the EU, did not support a stand-alone insurance approach.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries , urged countries not to betray “the expectations of the anxious global population” and highlighted the importance of adaptation, financing, technology and capacity-building support, and underlined the need for contributions to the LDC Fund to finance countries’ most immediate adaptation needs.
Canada, Japan, the Russian Federation and others stressed the importance of further analytical work.
The Russian Federation, with Moldova, said that a country member could not propose someone from another country.
Australia and the US supported a stock-taking exercise to review available information, including from recent workshops, while AOSIS endorsed continuing information exchange, an examination of policy formulation processes, and sectoral analysis.
The Philippines supported the Netherlands in stressing the importance of incorporating the views of those outside the convention, such as the business sector, and highlighted some of the country efforts in reinforcing the relationship of users and producers of information.
VENEZUELA, with the PHILIPPINES, called for a focus on environmental integrity at the workshop and, with INDONESIA, for a top-down rather than a bottom-up approach to aggregate emissions.
The US and EU opposed a proposal by Argentina to remove brackets from text on national communications, which would have permitted funding for Stage II adaptation activities to be based either on national communications or other national studies.
Emily Gaynor Dick-Forde, Minister of Planning, Housing and the Environment, Trinidad and Tobago, noted this meeting is a significant milestone in the implementation of the NWP and highlighted its critical importance for Caribbean countries.
Swaziland, for the African Group, expressed willingness to work on the basis of the text, but noted that it lacks ambition on mitigation and adaptation, as well as on means of implementation.
On institutional arrangements, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA, INDIA, IRAN, TANZANIA, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others, opposed by CANADA, JAPAN, the EU, the US and others, supported the establishment of an international capacity-building mechanism.
AOSIS, ROMANIA, HUNGARY, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NORWAY, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, GAMBIA and IRAN supported a more flexible approach, by which the revised methods would be applied as a supplement to the 1995 IPCC Guidelines on a voluntary basis for inventories due in April 1997 and on a mandatory basis for 1998 and 1999.
The PHILIPPINES and CHINA recommended consideration of the G-77/China capacity-building draft decision.
JAPAN and CANADA stressed the importance of the technical summary of the SED report.
MEXICO, for Colombia, Costa Rica and Honduras, elaborated on elements of a national financial arrangement for REDD+, introducing the concept of a REDD+ unit equivalent to one ton of carbon dioxide, which should be issued on the basis of: MRVed actions; established forest reference levels; a safeguards information system; and a national REDD+ registry.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, said some concepts had been lost.
Parties, including Switzerland and the G-77/China, submitted several proposals on this issue.
With JAPAN, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, she supported deletion of text that relates to establishment of a permanent forum under the SBI.
Sudan, for the African Group, welcomed progress made on: the Poznan Strategic work programme, LDCs, Article 6 and NAPs.
The UK, supported by Germany and Belgium, called for a statement at the end of the section to indicate that there are other warming possibilities outside the SRES scenarios.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that despite the lack of adequate resources and technology transfer assistance, non-Annex I countries such as Argentina and Bangladesh are still moving forward.
Ethiopia, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , emphasized the need for improved predictability of financial flows through addressing ex ante information, and highlighted loss and damage as a critical component of the global response to climate change.
Emphasizing transparency, the Netherlands, supported by Belgium, underscored the need for the agenda and minutes of the executive committee meetings to be made available to the Panel.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, suggested adding "competent international bodies" after "provided by" and cutting the phrase "especially in support of the review of adequacy of commitments" in the first bullet of Appendix 1.
The Chair proposed that the US, Ghana, Indonesia, Canada, Egypt and the EU form a small group to try and resolve the issues.
Australia highlighted overlap with other chapters, said that the principles already exist in the Convention and, with Canada, preferred to integrate capacity building into other chapters.
The European Union  noted its plan to substantially increase its contribution in the coming years, including with a EUR 1.7 million grant by the end of 2017 and a EUR 4 million grant in the next three years, all in addition to individual EU members’ contributions.
Australia and New Zealand highlighted the principle of least cost emission reductions in the Convention.
In discussions on the draft COP decision on Article 8, the G-77/ CHINA and the US said text on the guidelines had first to be finalized before attempting to remove brackets in the related draft decision.
The PHILIPPINES urged developed countries to engage in future commitments and MALDIVES also called for industrialized country leadership.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA noted the need for a comprehensive outcome at COP 15.
Canada and the EU argued that this issue is adequately addressed by previous decisions.
Cuba, for ALBA, said: the Kyoto Protocol must be safeguarded; the fate of Doha depends on the fate of the second commitment period; the new regime must not be weaker than the existing one; and historical responsibility and the use of common space cannot be sidelined.
94 The EU, Norway and Switzerland then noted that since they did not agree with the word  93all, 94 the report should not reference the 93SBI.
Based on written submissions from Germany and the US , they negotiated how reporting should occur, whether at the programme or project level, and how monitoring and verification of projects would be conducted.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, supported by TUVALU, suggested differentiating between enabling activities and implementation, indicating that emphasis should be on actions rather than process or promotion.
On strategic review of implementation, AILAC supported a five-year cycle and, with SWITZERLAND, TURKEY and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, and opposed by CHINA, said it should be applicable to all parties.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported by BOLIVIA, SINGAPORE, AOSIS and GHANA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, suggested deletion of detailed references to mitigation elements.
On finance, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, requested reference to interim and long-term financing.
Pakistan, Mexico, the Republic of Korea and China highlighted historical responsibility and noted different capacities of developed and developing countries to address climate change.
 POLAND, supported by UZBEKISTAN, said that subgroups were useful and suggested that a deadline for nominating experts be presented at the AGBM 2.
94 The EU argued, that such wording would allow the Fund to bring added value to whatever is already being undertaken elsewhere, whereas the G-77/China said this wording was inconsistent with decision 5/CP.7 .
Bolivia, for ALBA, stressed that developed country commitments cannot be conditioned on markets and the flexibility mechanisms, eluding historical responsibility.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed having an option stating that no decision should be taken on this issue.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, objected to the absence of language on adaptation, with the Philippines adding that the word was “profusely used” in previous discussions.
The US underlined that their interpretation of the Convention and the BAP is different from that of the G-77/China, but legitimate.
The Gambia, for LDCs, expressed disappointment that work on national adaptation plans has not moved forward as much as hoped.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES said that separate draft conclusions should be prepared for the SBI and SBSTA.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged further progress on research and systematic observation to strengthen institutions in LDCs, SIDS and African countries.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the financial mechanism, particularly concerning access to finance.
South Africa, for the African Group, said a shared vision should balance considerations of climate and development.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA suggested consideration of such language that does not require an amendment of Annex A. JAPAN highlighted environmental integrity, but said technical details require further clarification.
With MEXICO and the Maldives, for AOSIS, and Colombia, for AILAC, he urged parties to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
Peru, for Chile, Ecuador, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama and Uruguay, expressed support for taking into account decisions made at COP 15, as well as the AWG-LCA’s report to COP 15, work undertaken by the COP on the basis of the report and views expressed by parties at this meeting.
On the Standing Committee, parties considered proposals from: Pakistan; Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the US; and Switzerland.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the inputs to the 2018 facilitative dialogue.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA to deliver on a mandate to negotiate a parallel Protocol, to be completed by December 2012, that provides for comparable mitigation commitments for developed countries that do not have mitigation commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, noted that African countries have neither participated in AIJ nor received funding because donors seem to prefer other regions.
The EU and US said the GEF performs effectively and responsively.
Andrew Ure  and Balisi Justice Gopolang  co-chaired a contact group and informal consultations, focusing on the process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and modalities and guidelines for LDCs and other developing countries.
On adjustments, SLOVAKIA, the US, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA said all inventory problems were adjustable, while the EU said inventory problems of a specific threshold were not adjustable.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, TUVALU and NORWAY, and opposed by JAPAN, said natural uptake must be separated from human-induced effects.
In the discussions, the Philippines, speaking on behalf of the G-77/China, expressed concern that needs were still being assessed after five years.
The UK noted the lack of readily available methodologies to assess adaptation measures, while Jamaica noted that measures could be gauged by their effectiveness.
To a question from Nepal on estimating forest cover in mountainous areas, India said the problem is to be able to remove shadows when interpreting data, although the capacity to do this is increasing.
The text proposed by the EU and G-77/China on terms of reference for a workshop on P&amp;Ms was not adopted.
TUVALU and the G-77/CHINA proposed deleting reference to sustainable development and to multilateral environmental agreements.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, proposed deleting language making the option for no allocation of bunker fuels a “priority” for action.
On ambition, Maldives, for AOSIS, with Barbados, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY , COSTA RICA, MALI, SAMOA, ECUADOR, the PHILIPPINES, BOLIVIA and SAINT LUCIA, stressed a below 1.5 c2 b0C goal as critical.
AUSTRALIA, POLAND, the US, EU and other Annex I Parties expressed reservations on a paragraph inviting Annex I Parties to provide information on, inter alia, existing market imperfections and subsidies in the energy sector.
Jordan, India, China and Venezuela opposed reference to the catalyzing role of sub-national authorities in enhancing the impact of implementation of policies on reducing emissions and vulnerability, and building resilience.
He also: noted, with CHINA, the G-77/CHINA\'s current consideration of this item; called for consideration of rules, guidelines and modalities and other relevant issues; and, with the PHILIPPINES, opposed establishing another contact group on similar issues.
Participants heard presentations about China 92s 11th Five-year Plan, impacts of hurricanes on SIDS, Brazil 92s proposal to provide positive incentives to reduce emissions from deforestation in developing countries, integrating climate change into development strategies and the relationship between the Millennium Development Goals  and climate risks.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of principles and drew attention to problems arising from a lack of coherence and the multiplicity of governance systems that deal with financing.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed that emissions must peak by 2015 to avoid catastrophic impacts for vulnerable States such as SIDS, and to minimize the risks of irreversible impacts.
With NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, he suggested refining the synthesis into a draft negotiating text.
THAILAND noted with concern that the Secretariat was being asked to undertake numerous tasks, while BRAZIL asked whether the Secretariat had the required resources.
A discussion of four draft proposals, presented by AUSTRALIA, the EU, the G-77/CHINA and the US, dominated the deliberations.
After several additional proposals by China, the Netherlands, the US and the Republic of Korea, the Chair noted that the discussion must come to an end, closed the debate and suggested that the Committee adopt the text with the original compromise suggested by the Republic of Korea, on behalf of the G-77 and China, and accepted by the EU.
NEPAL and CAMBODIA raised the issue of non-renewable biomass, while BRAZIL and AOSIS underscored the need to maintain CDM 92s environmental integrity.
This includes Japan, and the fifteen member States of the European Union, which delivered their instruments of ratification to the UN on 31 May.
Japan and China also opposed establishing a high-level expert group, comprising the UNFCCC Secretariat, International Civil Aviation Organization  and the International Maritime Organization , to examine options for ensuring that revenues from international aviation and shipping can be used for climate finance.
Nigeria hoped the workshop’s outcomes would be relevant to governments and Norway asked that the outcomes be disseminated to a broad audience.
Ecuador, for ALBA, stressed the need to move forward with certainty that Qatar will take up issues of justice and equity.
ef bf bd NORWAY and AUSTRALIA said that project participants, the host Party or a designated legal entity should monitor.
Malaysia, for the G-77/CHINA, said developed countries should provide financial support in accordance with their obligations under the Convention.
The EU also drew attention to “radical improvements” on energy efficiency, and Belgium suggested text to indicate that a system transition in electricity generation may be underway.
Bahrain, for the G-77/CHINA, and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said they consider conclusions for all sub-items together as a package.
Belize, for SICA, said the relevance of the NWP could be enhanced if brought under the Adaptation Committee.
 On methodologies, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, cautioned against broadening CDM methodologies if it creates loopholes.
 BOLIVIA stressed that Annex I national communications must contain more detail and expressed concern that some non-EIT countries’ emissions were “camouflaged” by EIT emissions.
Australia and Ireland proposed, and delegates agreed, to add reference to 93associated coastal loss and damage 94 as examples of discontinuity.
  The session, held from 10-13 May 2011 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, focused primarily on follow-up actions to the IAC Review of the IPCC processes and procedures.
The US, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and AUSTRALIA cautioned that the draft decision on LULUCF has yet to be finalized.
INDIA, with CHINA and IRAN, recommended the use of Article 4.2   and ).
Canada, with the support of Japan, Australia and the US, and opposed by the G-77/China and the EU, proposed replacing the existing decision and its associated initiatives with alternative text stating that consideration of demonstrable progress cannot take place until the SBSTA has considered the issue pursuant to the guidelines that may be elaborated under Article 7, given that Articles 2 and 3.2 provide no mandate for P&amp;Ms to be considered in the context of demonstrable progress.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted areas of potential convergence, stressing, inter alia the importance of adaptation for all parties and aggressive mitigation to avoid increasing the adaptation burden.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, Zambia, South Africa and others stressed the need to address differentiation.
El Salvador, for SICA, said the meeting has laid a solid foundation for Durban.
Turkey 92s proposal to be removed from the Annexes was supported by PAKISTAN, the US, MEXICO and GEORGIA.
The US, supported by JAPAN and the EU, called for collaboration with the International Civil Aviation Organiation  and International Maritime Organization  specifically in studies on bunker emissions.
The G-77/CHINA, NEW ZEALAND and THAILAND stressed the need to determine the workshop 92s scope.
The G-77/China, the Africa Group and Samoa, opposed by the US, Canada, Japan, Russian Federation, Hungary and Australia, urged the establishment of an adaptation fund based on a levy applied to all three mechanisms.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said it should apply to mitigation and MOI but that the procedures for each may differ, and that parties should individually and collectively increase ambition.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, cautioned against establishing linkages with other elements of the Paris Agreement prematurely.
India, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA, and CHINA , underscored that the Paris Agreement Work Programme  should support enhanced ambition without “back-sliding” on rules.
Peru, for Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica and Panama, identified the need to make progress in defining the next steps for implementation and close the AWG-LCA negotiating track.
INDIA and CHINA opposed, calling instead for a reference only to developed countries and those listed in Annex II of the Convention.
NORWAY expressed concern over duplication of work and proposed forwarding issues relating to technology transfer to the contact group on technology, while EGYPT and MEXICO supported keeping the technology reference in the text.
MEXICO and CHILE supported a flexible approach with some binding commitments.
On institutional mechanisms, the G-77/China, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Chile, the LDCs, Turkey, Palau and the EU said the GCF should be anchored into the agreement.
PERU recommended the inclusion of uncertainties, while the US said uncertainties should fall under national inventory reporting .
With AUSTRIA, MOROCCO, SUDAN, the UK, AUSTRALIA and others, NEW ZEALAND supported the production of AR4 SYR.
According to China and India, since the Montreal Protocol is an entirely different process, it is not appropriate to give instructions to its parties.
Australia, with Saudi Arabia, noted the need to e2 80 9ccapitalize on what we have, e2 80 9d and proposed a e2 80 9clight-touch approach e2 80 9d to anchoring and enhancing existing institutions through COP and CMP decisions.
Nigeria, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Mali, Trinidad and Tobago, Togo, Cape Verde, Niger, Mauritius and Djibouti supported the Chair"s proposal.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called for a clear set of modalities for the operationalization of the forum and work programme, including inter alia: assigning specific tasks and activities for the rest of the year and creating an outline schedule for 2013 to address the specific needs and concerns of developing country parties.
BRAZIL highlighted capacity building as a cross-cutting issue that must be strengthened in many areas, including REDD, and, with EGYPT, noted the need for more collaboration on specific mechanisms to build capacity, including south-south cooperation.
QATAR, for the G-77/China, noted the impacts of recent climate-related disasters on developing countries, and called for renewed commitment by the international community.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA and others, supported maintaining the preamble, saying it was aimed at identifying the gaps in implementation.
With the US and BARBADOS, he suggested omitting response measures from the section, which SAUDI ARABIA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and ALGERIA opposed.
The EU highlighted annual reporting by Annex I parties under the Protocol, while CHINA noted that the EU’s fifth national communication contains only 2-3 pages on the impacts of response measures and focuses on positive impacts.
Germany, with Spain, suggested stronger language on taking into account the UNFCCC work programme, noting the increased demand for timely scientific information by policy-makers.
Switzerland and Belgium suggested asking the UNFCCC to contribute more because of their reliance on IPCC products.
Australia, Canada, Switzerland and others highlighted a sectoral approach to mitigation and a focus on 93key areas, 94 including transport, renewable energy, energy efficiency, and carbon capture and storage.
France, for the EU, called on developed countries to take on reduction commitments of 30% by 2020 based on 1990 levels.
  Mitsutsune Yamaguchi, Teikyo University, reported on efficiency gains in Japan 92s iron and steel sector, adding that if this sector in China and Russia achieved the same energy intensity, total global emissions would fall one percent.
On the remaining text, BRAZIL proposed language on managed lands, the EU suggested inviting the IPCC and other relevant organization to continue their efforts, and the US sought to bracket a paragraph on capacity building for the use of the 2006 Guidelines.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, presented basic principles for Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4 .
Supported by AUSTRALIA, for the Umbrella Group, he underscored the importance of linking sustainable development and climate change.
MICRONESIA and TUVALU stressed the aviation and maritime sectors’ potential for generating revenue for adaptation.
Venezuela and Bolivia, in particular, objected to discussions of market-based-approaches and inclusion of these in the new draft text.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by POLAND, stated that the decision of the BM refers to the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility," and proposed inserting in paragraph , which describes analysis and assessment: "be based on the principles of the Convention, including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities."
EGYPT and BRAZIL stated that bunker fuel coverage must apply the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of stakeholder participation.
TUVALU, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, stressed that the text had already been subject to extensive consultations.
South Africa, for the African Group, supported by India, cautioned against “cherry picking” individual findings.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said work should focus on LULUCF, market mechanisms and common metrics.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , emphasized commitment to adopting amendments to the Protocol in Doha with a view to operationalize the second commitment period.
The meeting developed a declaration to be presented in Copenhagen, signed by Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Kiribati, Maldives, Nepal, Rwanda, Tanzania and Viet Nam.
Indonesia, on behalf of the CARTAGENA DIALOGUE, outlined key issues for a balanced package in Doha, including adoption of a second commitment period, closure of the AWG-LCA, and progress under the ADP.
He said the contact group would have a mandate to complete work on unresolved issues with a short deadline and that open-ended drafting groups would be convened, chaired by “people we know well and trust.” Sudan, for the G-77/China, requested confirmation that the process would result in two separate documents and that no document that had not been agreed by the parties would be forwarded to the Heads of State and Government.
On new  , Brazil, with China, India, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Bangladesh, supported the option of not including any new gases in Annex A of the Protocol.
Mexico proposed adding the role of non-governmental organizations, and Malaysia the role of stakeholders to this chapter outline, and this was agreed to by delegates.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the description of policies and measures should include a section on mitigation.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, urged consideration of how to complete the report on performance indicators.
Representatives of AOSIS, the LDCs, India and Indonesia also reiterated calls for such commitments.
The US, supported by the EU and AUSTRALIA, noted that the text does not contain actions that all parties can take to address adaptation.
Noting the focus on mitigation, Turkey, supported by Brazil, asked for all components, including adaptation and MOI to be included under INDCs.
Sudan, for the African Group, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, Saudi Arabia, Argentina, India, Uganda, Paraguay, Pakistan and others opposed the text.
Noting the focus on mitigation, TURKEY, supported by BRAZIL, asked for all components, including adaptation and MOI to be included under INDCs.
Sierra Leone suggested addressing differences as well as similarities between regions in the introductory chapter to Part B. Australia noted the importance of the consistent treatment of uncertainties, and several countries, including France and Italy, supported adding trans-regional hotspots, such as the Mediterranean.
ECUADOR, CHINA, CUBA and Uganda, for the LDCs, called for submissions.
France, supported by the US, preferred the second bracketed option, which listed specific elements of national programmes subject to mitigation and adaption measures, but suggested moving it to paragraph 2 on programme priorities.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, supported making recommendations to the Financial Mechanism to support implementation.
Delegates considered draft decisions submitted by the Chair, the EU and the G-77/China.
NORWAY differentiated between a tax on energy and a tax on carbon, and opposed proposals that could result in “trade wars.” The AFRICAN GROUP underscored geographical representation, direct access, country-driven approaches, and the legally binding nature of financing commitments.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, AOSIS, BANGLADESH and INDONESIA, suggested merging Option A and Option B. BRAZIL, with BOLIVIA, opposed stating that Option A includes proposals that are consequential amendments to Protocol Article 3.9 , while those in Option B are not.
Japan, the US and others supported using the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
The EU argued that Article 4 is not a mechanism, and, commenting on Argentina 92s intervention, said good faith is not sufficient due to inclusion of market-based mechanisms in the Protocol.
Australia, Brazil, New Zealand, Japan, China, Singapore, India, Saudi Arabia, AOSIS and several others opposed both multiplication and discount factors.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said success in Durban depends on achieving balanced results based on the Convention’s principles, including common but differentiated responsibilities.
Scene-setting presentations by the UNFCCC Secretariat, the EU, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the International Aid Transparency Initiative  focused on: existing accounting arrangements under the Convention; enhancing accounting modalities; reaching a mutual understanding on what is counted as climate finance, including core principles; and IATI experiences in increasing transparency of information.
CHINA and INDIA called for deleting text suggesting that e2 80 9cparties mobilize and provide financial resources in a manner which is capable of adapting dynamically to changing realities and future developments and needs.
Sudan, for the African Group, said the second option could be considered, but required that all elements be covered and strengthened with a reference to the type and amount of MOI in order to establish parity with the required mitigation information.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, called for the Green Climate Fund to include a dedicated window for REDD+ and a new market mechanism to be established and shared by both the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP.
This was supported by the EU, NORWAY and TURKEY.
Tuvalu and Argentina supported further work on maritime and aviation transport emissions but urged considering implications of their coverage, such as to tourism.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, requested that their proposal be used as the basis of negotiations.
On implications of emissions trading and project-based mechanisms on projections, the Netherlands said assumptions about the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and project-based mechanisms are considered in his country 92s emissions projections.
KENYA and INDIA agreed with focusing on options with similarities that could be merged.
INDIA, with SRI LANKA, proposed developing country concessions for accreditation of operational entities.
SAMOA and MAURITANIA urged specific reference to the share of proceeds assisting LDCs and Small Island Developing States.
The EU called for clarity on questions requiring further work, with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, specifying the need for clarity on how to take stock of progress.
On taking stock of progress, South Africa, supported by China and Tuvalu, and opposed by the US, proposed consideration of modalities for biennial communications of indicative support.
Japan, supported by Canada, noted the tabling of a draft proposal by the Umbrella Group  on the creation of a new "window" in the GEF to channel funding for the issues discussed in "Box A", the streamlining of the GEF; and special consideration for LDCs and SIDS.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, proposed a new paragraph that states: Many Parties stressed that by formally presenting the G-77/China position paper on initial communications from non-Annex I Parties, the implementation of their existing commitments in Article 4.1 had been sufficiently advanced.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by COLOMBIA, called for TEMs focusing on experiences from implementation.
KENYA, for the Africa Group, highlighted the urgency of adaptation, and emphasized the need to operationalize the Special Climate Change Fund.
COLOMBIA, with the EU and CHILE, opposed by VENEZUELA and BOLIVIA, proposed dividing time equally between the consideration of non-market mechanisms and new market-based mechanisms.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that their Prime Minister had participated in the negotiations, together with the US, UK, Russian Federation, Mexico, the Maldives, Algeria, India, the Republic of Korea, Lesotho, China, Brazil, Sweden, Spain, Ethiopia and other developed and developing country parties as well as UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Parties deliberated on proposals by the EU and US in the Co-Chairs 92 draft text.
The US, supported by Turkey and Switzerland, suggested postponing the decision about to whether the AWG-LCA would meet in conjunction with COP 16 until June.
The US, Singapore and Switzerland preferred not including a footnote.
The COP convened presidency consultations on this issue, in conjunction with other issues related to adaptation, co-facilitated by Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister of the Environment, Energy and Housing, Finland, and Lamin Dibba, Minister of Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources, The Gambia.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, CANADA, MALAYSIA, AOSIS, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA, but opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested holding a workshop on the implications of the TAR for the work of the SBSTA.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and JAPAN reformulated the paragraph, and parties agreed to reflect that recommendations presented by the JISC will present options to address concerns raised by stakeholders and for validation by an accredited independent entity of post-registration changes.
The EU said meetings should be held regularly, and SWITZERLAND suggested it meet at least once a year, given the continuous work of the compliance body.
Others, including the EU and Peru, for AILAC, supported focusing on reporting.
The G-77/China, Argentina, China, and Saudi Arabia expressed concern over lack of progress on this issue and suggested that developed countries were failing to meet their COP-7 obligations.
Parties debated whether to delete a proposal by ARGENTINA, URUGUAY and COLOMBIA on “tackling the drivers of deforestation and forest degradation.”
CHINA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and ARGENTINA, said that most of the proposed actions should be adopted by States and that the Argentine proposal could be included in the draft decision requesting SBSTA to organize an in-session workshop on these issues.
Madagascar, Chad, Egypt, Mali, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Spain, the Philippines, Kuwait and others supported both proposals.
 Sudan, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with slow progress in fulfilling the group’s mandate under Protocol Article 3.9 .
The US, with the UK, questioned the inclusion of food production in the overview chapter.
  The Gambia, on behalf of the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by ALGERIA, EGYPT, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA called for all contact groups under the AWG-KP to be suspended until conclusion of work by the contact group on Annex I emission reductions.
On sources of funding, Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed assessed contributions starting at 1.5 % of developed countries’ Gross National Income as the primary basis of funding.
In response to a query from Senegal on the mandate of the UNFCCC to provide guidance to Parties, Thailand reminded participants that CGE is mandated to provide Parties with technical support.
India, the UAE, China, Belize and Tuvalu opposed.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged scaling up finance for adaptation and equitable compensation for those adversely impacted by response measures.
Belize, for SICA, highlighted the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
The US, Canada and IPCC Chair Pachauri opposed the inclusion of information not present in the underlying technical report.
Non-Annex I Communications: The non-Annex I communications contact group met in an evening session and discussed proposals submitted by the EU and the G-77/China for the draft decision.
Poland highlighted that vulnerability depends largely on local and national conditions, which limits the extent to which SBSTA can identify vulnerability, and Brazil noted that many actions are likely to extend beyond the five-year programme of work.
OMAN and VENEZUELA opposed the inclusion of the theme on energy and climate change.
NORWAY and the EU queried the specific references to the accreditation of Operational Entities in providing certification.
Liechtenstein, on behalf of the EIG, emphasized that the objective in Doha is to finalize work on the Kyoto Protocol second commitment period and outlined three outstanding issues: length of the second commitment period; level of ambition; and the smooth transition to the second commitment period.
SWITZERLAND and SOUTH AFRICA inquired about how the placeholders on further work would be populated, including whether to reflect possible divergence in views.
Switzerland and New Zealand, opposed by Egypt, cautioned that “support” and “assistance” generally imply financial support or assistance.
ARGENTINA, with the G-77/CHINA, said text proposing additional submissions by Parties and an informal inter-sessional consultation prior to SBI-19 would further postpone progress on this matter.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, Spain, for the EU, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, and many others deeply regretted the serious incident.
The LDCs called for roundtables on all items, including, and supported by ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, and AOSIS, an in-session roundtable on compliance.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested a robust compliance mechanism.
Micronesia, with the Bahamas, highlighted urgency.
CHINA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BANGLADESH and others expressed support for the third alternative, with INDIA stressing that it captures the essence of the Convention and the BAP.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the accountability of the financial mechanism to the parties, the requirement to mobilize financial resources and the principle of equity.
Iran, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, said success in Doha will require: an ambitious and legally-binding second commitment period that includes a fair and science-based contribution by Annex I parties to closing the ambition gap; an ambitious agreed outcome under the BAP that ensures comparable mitigation ambition by non-Kyoto parties, financing ambition and addressing other unfinished business under the BAP; and greater clarity on the ADP work.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, stressed the comparatively small amount of money made available for adaptation.
BOLIVIA stressed the need for inclusion of alternative, non-market, and joint mitigation and adaptation approaches, and for adding text on “the protection and integrity of Mother Earth.” On a global emission budget, ETHIOPIA proposed including a reference to national per capita emissions and taking into account historical emissions.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented that the positive spirit of the heads of delegation meeting on finance on Tuesday, 4 December, had not resulted in notable progress in SBI consultations on Agreement Article 9.5.
 The US and Belarus questioned language noting that taxes and charges are cost-effective.
MEXICO emphasized the need for assessing progress along the way and supported ex ante review of commitments, as proposed by AILAC.
The UK said that others, including the UNFCCC, would decide on the implications of using the 2019 Refinement, while Norway stressed the need to protect the integrity of the IPCC by keeping the purview of the UNFCCC and the IPCC separate.
 ITALY: Valerio Calzolaio, Vice Minister for the Environment, stated that Italy will promote Mediterranean regional activities as a bridge between Europe and Africa.
Delegates engaged in an initial exchange of views, in which the G-77/China and AOSIS reiterated their call for action-oriented measures and said that the need to expedite these should not be restricted by calls for further assessments.
  On Thursday, Saint Lucia, supported by Ireland, Norway, the EU, Belgium, the UK, Bolivia, Zambia and others, opposed conflating separate geoengineering concepts, noting that while GHG removal is a policy response included in the Paris Agreement, solar radiation management is not.
Malawi, for the LDCs, lamented that text on e2 80 9cencouraging policy signals by governments e2 80 9d does not address provision of climate finance.
Brazil highlighted that they are working closely with the expert who helped them develop the proposal, noted a recent paper on the proposal in the context of BASIC and asked the Secretariat to make the paper available.
Germany asserted that plant biomass CO2 is unlike other CO2 and, supported by Finland, called for reflecting Chapter 8 of the underlying report, on reporting guidance and tables, in the Overview Chapter.
China and South Africa emphasized that adaptation is more important than mitigation in this sector.
On Sources of Information, the G-77/China, with the Russian Federation, opposed by New Zealand, suggested distinguishing between mandatory and non-mandatory sources.
 Several Latin American and African countries, opposed by Brazil, China and others, were of the view that the lack of small-scale sinks projects registered under the CDM was partly due to the limit, currently set at projects that result in net greenhouse gas removals of less than 8 kilotonnes  of CO2/year.
 In Thursday’s discussions, China called for removing reference to transboundary water resources, while India suggested addressing the link between water and food, potentially in a cross-chapter box.
While the US, Japan and Germany supported the recommendations, there were suggestions for the disclosure form.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said that in general, the text presents a “decent basis” to work from, but highlighted the lack of ambition in the text, and also called for more reference to the rules-based regime.
IRELAND, for the EU, stressed the importance of decoupling economic growth and emissions, and said renewables are a priority.
In the ensuing discussion, Gabon, for the African Group, outlined their views on several agenda items, noting, inter alia, that parties should have a chance to provide submissions, that the sub-items under the possible additional matters should be listed in the annex to the conclusions, and that no parallel negotiations on the mitigation section of NDCs and the transparency framework should be held at APA 1-7 in Katowice.
AUSTRALIA preferred reference to 93good 94 rather than 93best 94 practices and, with JAPAN and the US, said policies and measures should reflect national circumstances.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for capturing progress that enables engaging in “textual mode” in the next session.
On technology, CANADA and AUSTRALIA highlighted the EGGT’s advance reports.
The EU argued that Article 4 is not a mechanism and, commenting on ARGENTINA ef bf bds intervention, said good faith it not sufficient due to inclusion of market-based mechanisms in the Protocol.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said recent climate disasters in SIDS are evidence of their special circumstances, and that the UNEP Gap Report shows it is not too late to get “us back on track to limit warming to 1.5 c2 b0C.”
On a sentence stating that  , Japan, supported by Switzerland, proposed adding text noting that few quantitative estimates have been completed for additional warming of around 3     c2 b0C and above.
Canada indicated that parts of the proposal could be considered as a part of the Bali roadmap and Australia, New Zealand and Japan noted links with the second review of the Protocol under Article 9.
Delegates will also discuss Parties 92 compliance with the Protocol and a proposed amendment to the Protocol, as well as capacity building, a proposal by Belarus to amend the list of countries with commitments under the Protocol, and a proposal by the Russian Federation on procedures to approve voluntary commitments under the Protocol.
Describing its proposal on a global goal for technology development and transfer, CHINA, supported by the UAE, stressed the importance of the process generated by the proposed aspirational goal, which would help achieve the Convention e2 80 99s objectives, and enable reviewing the gap between provision of support and technology needs.
Egypt, with Bangladesh, commented on an imbalance between adaptation and mitigation in budgetary allocations, expressing hope that this would be addressed in the supplementary budget and voluntary contributions by parties.
On the section noting that ocean storage can be carried out in two ways, via injection into the water column or via deposits on the sea floor, AUSTRALIA, supported by BELGIUM and CANADA, suggested noting that ocean storage may 93potentially 94 be carried out in two ways.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and SOLOMON ISLANDS drew attention to the AOSIS proposal, emphasizing that its aim is to secure the survival of the Kyoto Protocol and a protocol to enhance the Convention’s implementation.
The US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that this item address the submission of second and subsequent national communications.
Saint Lucia, supported by a number of parties, and opposed by the Arab Group, introduced a new paragraph urging the update to the synthesis report to take into account 1.5 c2 b0C scenarios.
Regarding the section of the text on Accounting Specific to Article 3.3, the EU, US, PERU and TUVALU called for symmetry in terms of credits for afforestation and reforestation on one hand and debits for deforestation on the other.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with SRI LANKA and THE GAMBIA, called on Parties to make resources available for institutional capacity enhancement and to expand the sphere of African countries participating in country studies.
Spain, for the EUROPEAN UNION , highlighted possibilities for progress on: the NWP; using research and science to inform negotiations; REDD; technology transfer; and standardized baselines under the Clean Development Mechanism .
BOLIVIA described outcomes of the World People’s Conference on Climate Change, held in Cochabamba, Bolivia, in April 2010.
Participants accepted wording suggested by the US and amended by the EU and the G-77/China for a paragraph inviting the IPCC, in conjunction with SBSTA-11, to provide an in-depth progress report and a special side event on the draft IPCC Special Report on LULUCF.
Maldives, for AOSIS, asked for clarity on how the issues of adaptation, and loss and damage would be handled.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, with China, Cuba, South Africa, Egypt, India, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, proposed that a contact group consider how to follow up on the high-level roundtable that took place at SB 40.
She, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and JAPAN, opposed excluding certain parties from the discussions.
The US urged participants not to reassess the underlying assessment, and Belgium reminded participants that the SPM was a summary “for” policy makers and not “by” policy makers.
Noting that his country e2 80 99s emissions peaked in 2005 due to a e2 80 9cvigorous e2 80 9d renewable energy support policy, PORTUGAL presented provisional results under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s compliance assessment during the first commitment period, which indicates a 17% overachievement of Portugal e2 80 99s emission target of 27% compared to 1990 levels.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said AWG-KP 13 had reconfirmed that environmental integrity is critical for pending issues such as carryover of AAUs and LULUCF accounting.
Some countries, including CHINA, IRAN and POLAND, did not support this position.
Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported deleting inconsistencies with the BAP and the Convention.
AUSTRALIA, with the EU and the US, noted that they had agreed to consider a workshop on Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 on the understanding that it would be a “joint” workshop with 1/CP.10, but that it could be worded as either a workshop where the issues were “considered together” or “back-to-back.” SAUDI ARABIA underscored that distinct issues should not be linked.
On whether to consider sectors where emissions can be attributed to a particular country, sectors where emissions cannot be attributed, or both, the EU and Norway supported considering both, while Saudi Arabia stated that sectors that go beyond national borders should not be addressed.
The preconditions for raising the question of additional obligations will occur when Russia’s GDP per capita is comparable to the OECD countries.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, suggested, inter alia, emphasizing the importance of addressing fundraising strategies and recognizing the Adaptation Fund was established at COP 7.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, raised concerns over developing countries’ access to funds from the GEF, with AOSIS also pointing to issues related to the accreditation of agencies.
At the contact group meeting on Thursday, 26 May, Chair Ashe presented a revised budget proposal consisting of total income of US$55,251,583, which was supported by the EU and G-77/China.
Papua New Guinea, with the Central African Republic, expressed “satisfaction that REDD+ has been incorporated in the Paris Agreement.”
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported focusing negotiations on issues that could be agreed and reaching a balanced agreement.
The US, JAPAN, PANAMA, COLOMBIA, AUSTRALIA and others supported workshops for AIJ and many delegations recommended use of a uniform reporting format that is not onerous for developing countries.
On COP/MOP, SWITZERLAND, with NEW ZEALAND, said it would "take note" of the compliance body 92s reports.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for discussions in Panama to lay the basis for a balanced and legally-binding outcome in Durban.
On the COP/ MOP, Japan, Canada, the US and Poland reiterated preference for existing Article 6 provisions.
The US suggested text noting the need to take account of the financial resources that "may be needed" for the implementation of the EGTT 92s work programme, while THAILAND and GHANA supported text stating that the EGTT "requires" more resources.
 A number of delegations, including TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States , and ZIMBABWE, stressed the importance of Article 5 to developing countries.
The US, supported by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, called for all new text to be introduced from the floor.
The EU supported the decision accepting Germany’s offer.
 The final round-table on "assessment of progress at the national, regional and international levels to fulfill the promise and objective enshrined in the climate change agreements, including the scientific, information, policy and financial aspects" was co-chaired by Fernando Tudela Abad, Chief of Staff of the Secretariat for Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries, Mexico, and J fcrgen Trittin, Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Germany.
Tanabe thanked Switzerland and Norway for their financial contributions.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the group was: looking forward to further elaborate on adaption communications; viewed transparency on mitigation action as important to understand collective and individual goals; and recognized the GST as central in driving collective ambition.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by IRAN, noted Article 4.8, stating that funding action be considered in regard to the specific needs of developing countries.
Brazil, the EU, Tuvalu and Canada called for discussion on whether activities are best considered under the CDM or NAMAs.
COLOMBIA discussed the role of territorial planning and proposed a regional center for adaptation, while MALAWI emphasized local knowledge.
JAPAN, supported by the EU, suggested further enhancing web-based information exchange.
BRAZIL and CHINA proposed, and the US agreed, to indicate that the seventh national communication should be submitted “no later than four years” after 2014.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported a short and focused preambular section and said that commitments on finance should be legally binding.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that the amendments made by the G-77 and China and the AOSIS would prove to be time effective for the AGBM process.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by the EU, deleted references to "within available resources" and "resources permitting."
On NAMAs, Ash Sharma, NAMA Facility, highlighted 14 projects financed to date, while Colombia, Indonesia and Kenya highlighted their development of NAMAs, stressing projects such as circular solid waste management for urban areas, rapid transit and energy efficiency.
The GAMBIA, for LDCs, said the share of proceeds should be expanded to include JI and emissions trading to provide additional financing for the Adaptation Fund.
Samoa, speaking for the Cartagena Dialogue, underscored the need for the Panama meeting to deliver serious technical work on the key elements of the Cancun package and called for “candid” dialogue on the future of the Kyoto Protocol and the adoption of a legally-binding agreement.
Expressing concern about progress on finance and adaptation, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the urgency of starting discussions, as early as possible, to identify the new collective goal on finance, noting the current finance target is not on track to be met.
Responding to US comments, South Africa noted that a paragraph on developing country mitigation goes further than what was expected in the Convention, while the paragraph on developed country commitments was not as strong as he would have liked.
On whether the proposed registry mechanism should be housed under the financial mechanism, Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that it should be a stand-alone structure with clear and direct links to the financial mechanism.
China, with Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and others, said that reference to consequences should be with regard to all developing countries.
The EU, NORWAY, the US, JAPAN and other developed countries indicated that the appropriate place for discussing mitigation ambition is under the ADP.
Supported by INDONESIA and CANADA, she called upon SBSTA to request a Secretariat paper on work under Article 6 for SBSTA-9.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted linkages between the AWGs and the need for cooperation.
Colombia, for AILAC, said the text should make reference to scaling up provision and mobilization of climate finance.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA, INDIA and URAGUAY, noted the need to better distinguish between AIJ projects and those jointly implemented by Annex I countries.
In answer to a question from the Russian Federation, Brazil noted that estimating changes in carbon stocks does not produce information about whether these are due to degradation or to natural processes or whether carbon stocks may recover.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the nomination of a Bureau member from Samoa to represent the SIDS.
 The Cartagena Dialogue for Progressive Action on Climate Change met from 3-4 April 2012 in Nairobi, Kenya.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the need for coherent rules across tracks, noting that “a managed forest is a managed forest” regardless of whether parties take commitments under the Kyoto Protocol or under a broader climate regime.
The US and the EU preferred focusing on operative text and questioned the need for a section on principles.
Uganda, Egypt, for the Arab Group, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Bangladesh, China, the Philippines, Timor-Leste, Venezuela, Bolivia, the Gambia, Peru, AOSIS, Colombia and Sudan supported addressing political commitments first.
Noting the need for rules on markets and LULUCF, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for broad and effective participation of all parties under a single, new legally-binding agreement.
INDIA said the G-77/China proposal provides more details and places the SBSTA\'s work in the context of implementation.
The US said it would be difficult to discuss these issues out of context, and, with TANZANIA and CANADA, noted other possible areas for prioritization.
Mexico, with Kuwait, underlined uncertainty over the nature of NAMAs.
AUSTRALIA suggested reinsertion of those clusters, particularly the one on national schedules, and JAPAN expressed “gratitude” for indicating in a footnote that issues in a new sub-section on MRV will be discussed in the mitigation contact group as overarching issues.
PAKISTAN called for a fast-track procedure for technology transfer, and SOUTH AFRICA highlighted the role of incremental costs and market mechanisms.
The EU, also speaking for the CG-11 and SWITZERLAND, introduced a proposal on Article 6  containing appendices on standards for accreditation of independent entities and on criteria for baseline setting and monitoring, as well as several amendments to the draft decisions .
The UK asked for an opportunity to discuss strategic planning for AR6 and, supported by Germany and Belgium, proposed addressing the future of the Task Group on Data and Scenario for Impact and Climate Analysis  early to allow for a prompt initiation of work should the proposal for TGICA’s transformation be accepted.
In contrast, noting that the IPCC already has an executive component, Saudi Arabia, the Russian Federation, the Maldives, Niger and others cautioned against increasing bureaucracy and called for clearly identifying needs before taking a decision to establish a new body.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed separating treaty elements from decision elements at this stage.
Responding to the US proposal, Tanzania suggested using the structure in place under the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund to address issues of governance and access.
Zimbabwe, on behalf of the G-77/China, highlighted the importance of developing a mechanism to ensure implementation of Article 4.8 and 4.9, and expedited activities under Article 4.9 .
Saint Lucia, for the Caribbean Community, proposed identifying information integral to determining NDCs’ aggregate effect.
During discussions, Kenya and Mexico noted that a number of countries lack the experience to undertake biennial reports.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern on “delinking” textual language from the Convention and dilution of Convention principles, particularly on differentiation.
Noting the importance of biomass for many LDCs, AUSTRALIA said models need to take into account all GHGs and sinks.
Brazil, supported by China and the Gambia, stressed that the AWG-KP’s mandate was agreed by COP/MOP 1 before the Bali Roadmap, explaining that there is no need for working jointly with the AWG-LCA.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , underlined that the scale of work may require parallel sessions and said that new submissions are not needed.
The Netherlands and the US called for broad participation in the expert meeting.
The US and SLOVENIA opposed the change, noting it excluded certain groups of Parties.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at the lack of progress under the AWG-KP, emphasizing that political will is key for establishing a second commitment period.
Saudi Arabia, with Canada and the Netherlands, said that this chapter referred to manufacturing and services.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, asked that financing be primarily public, including grant-based finance.
CHINA suggested a new paragraph stating that an MCP’s function should be “to provide assistance to Parties in relation to difficulties they encounter in the course of implementation including:  clarification of questions and  assistance to the developing countries Parties in accordance with Article 12.7 .” The EU noted that the paragraphs on objective and on functions are overlapping and proposed a new paragraph on an MCP’s mandate, which “repacked” the existing elements in a different format.
On countries that would be most severely impacted by potential negative consequences, SAUDI ARABIA, COLOMBIA, KUWAIT, NIGERIA and others preferred referring to countries identified in Convention Articles 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, while the EU, JAPAN and AOSIS preferred referring to the poorest and most vulnerable developing country parties.
Australia proposed, and the Panel agreed, to record the EU’s concern in the minutes of the meeting along with Austria’s suggestion.
The EU, opposed by AUSTRALIA, said there should be a pre-commitment review of elements pertaining to participation in the mechanisms, and an annual review during the commitment period.
The Czech Republic, for the European Union , identified the need for low carbon development strategies, and said developing countries should reduce emissions by 15-30% below business as usual projections by 2020.
TURKEY said it was looking forward to COP-7 92s adoption of a decision forwarded from SBI removing Turkey from the Annex II list and recognizing its special circumstances as an Annex I Party.
BULGARIA, on behalf of the Central Group of Eleven , called for further consultations to develop a future framework for the economies in transition.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, called for enhancing a supporting framework for national communications, and a capacity building framework.
Many, including Australia, Nauru, for AOSIS, and Nepal, for the LDCs, expressed gratitude to the COP president, the people of Peru, and the ADP Co-Chairs for a successful conference.
MALI, for the G-77/China, noted the need for guidance to the GEF regarding sustaining infrastructure.
SAUDI ARABIA, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA, KUWAIT, JAPAN, EGYPT and QATAR expressed support for consideration of a draft decision on how to include CCS under the CDM.
Peru, for Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Peru and Guatemala, requested parties to accept the documents, noting that they reflect progress and are a starting point.
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and POLAND, supported not having a paragraph on mechanisms in this section.
Brazil, Bolivia, Pakistan and India opposed contributions from sub-national authorities to high-level events.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged broad participation in the multilateral assessment, noted the submission of biennial update reports  and looked forward to further submissions.
During discussions, Saudi Arabia, supported by Mali, called for a process to increase the number of authors from vulnerable underrepresented regions, such as Africa, noting that the contents of previous IPCC reports reflect the regional imbalance among authors.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the importance of completing work on cooperative approaches in order to send a signal to the private sector to shift investments.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the US, preferred MRV as a heading for the section, observing that compliance is a cross-cutting issue.
MOZAMBIQUE said LDCs with limited private sectors need capacity building to participate in the technology-transfer process.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for coherence of financing under the Convention and “enhanced support to enable enhanced actions.” Canada suggested focusing on areas of complementarity and on increased effectiveness of the Financial Mechanism.
NORWAY, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND said the LMDCs CRP goes beyond the Warsaw mandate, with AUSTRALIA saying implementation of the Bali Action Plan is addressed elsewhere.
The US and JAPAN welcomed the proposal for two drafting groups.
The UK announced contributions to the work programme, and CANADA welcomed recognition of indigenous knowledge.
The LMDCs and Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for further defining the global goal on adaptation, including by developing metrics.
On scope, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of the global stocktake to determine “whether the Paris Agreement is sufficient for dealing with runaway climate change.” SOUTH AFRICA advocated a scope that is both forward and backward looking.
Many African States, including Botswana, Nigeria, Chad, C“te d\'Ivoire, Benin, Lesotho, The Gambia, Guinea Bissau, Mauritania, Senegal, Tunisia, Togo, Mozambique, Morocco and the Central African Republic, stressed the link between climate change and other problems, such as desertification and extreme poverty, and called for technology transfer and financial assistance.
JAPAN and the GAMBIA supported considering positive impacts and co-benefits.
Switzerland, supported by Spain, stressed that the tourism industry should be included as a bullet in this chapter.
AOSIS and the EU supported the retention of both proposed consequences limiting the access to mechanisms.
NEPAL and CANADA advocated using a range of technologies.
BHUTAN, NEPAL and PERU drew attention to the significant effects of climate change on fragile mountain ecosystems.
The EU and the US highlighted convergence on the role and importance of technology, cooperative action and anchoring institutions.
Austria drew attention to the different spheres, with the US stating that this discussion only related to the cryosphere and proposing deleting reference to physical systems.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, noted a proposal submitted on socioeconomic and environmental criteria.
The UK and Peru preferred reference to “scientific” rather than “research” organizations, which was ultimately accepted.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a clear signal that the Protocol is “not dead.” She underscored the need for the Barcelona session to restore credibility and confidence in the will of the international community to tackle climate change and for the work of the AWG-KP to be brought in line with its work programme in order to make progress.
On Monday, Acting IPCC Secretary Sivakumar presented this item , noting the Secretariat had received four new requests since IPCC-42, including three organizations already accredited as observers with the UNFCCC and UNEP: Economic Cooperation Organization; Yale University, US; and University College London, UK.
The US, New Zealand, Canada and Australia stressed the role of the private sector and the advantages of issuer liability.
The Russian Federation proposed reference to land management systems and, with Saudi Arabia, negative emissions.
 NEW ZEALAND, supported by JAPAN, suggested seeking expert input on developing a common criteria for assessing mitigation potential.
The African Group, supported by AOSIS and AILAC, stressed that one day of the transparency roundtable should be dedicated to transparency of support.
CANADA, supported by the US, said that it would be premature to undertake major revisions to the guidelines.
Costa Rica, also speaking for Guatemala and Panama, supported stabilization at 350 ppm.
e2 80 9d India, with El Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and China, requested including reference to adaptation.
Portugal, for the EU, said growth in global emissions must be halted in the next 10-15 years and urged a comprehensive global agreement by 2009.
New Zealand, Climate Action Network  and others opposed the inclusion of nuclear energy, and Brazil and others objected to CCS.
Based on this, and on proposals made by the EU, G-77/China, and US, the Co-Chairs prepared draft conclusions.
On the new paragraph on adaptation, Switzerland and India, opposed by Australia, criticized its introduction and said it should be in Section D. WGII agreed to text indicating that adaptation will be more challenging in developing countries.
The Netherlands, Canada, the US, Australia and Peru were among those proposing possible criteria.
NEW ZEALAND called for analyzing a range of factors and identifying varying national targets around the aggregate range, but the GAMBIA warned against allowing country-specific circumstances to delay progress.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for more time for item 5.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, expressed concern that the new text does not adequately reflect parties’ views on finance.
Cuba spoke for the BOLIVARIAN ALLIANCE FOR THE PEOPLES OF OUR AMERICA-PEOPLES’ TRADE TREATY , consisting of Antigua and Barbuda, Bolivia, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Venezuela.
The EU recognized the importance of supplementarity and domestic action, while also emphasizing the role of mitigation potential in determining the amount of emission reductions to be achieved through offsetting, and identified the need to “let the market play.” CANADA opposed an international ceiling on the use of credits, stressing it as a domestic policy decision, and NEW ZEALAND highlighted her country’s circumstances and uncertainty over emission trends, including from the agriculture sector.
On the Draft Conclusions on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by a number of Parties, including TUVALU speaking for the G-77/CHINA, proposed deleting text on convening an intersessional consultation on LULUCF after SBSTA-13.
With the US and Canada, he suggested that the revised uniform reporting format be discussed at SBSTA-14.
Australia, New Zealand, the US, Canada and others said all parties in a position to do so should provide support for the implementation of the new agreement.
FRANCE, BELGIUM, and Chair Pachauri spoke against the release of any products prior to IPCC approval.
On the Talanoa Dialogue and the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C, co-facilitated by Isabella L c3 b6vin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate, Sweden, and Carlos Manuel Rodriguez, Minister of Environment and Energy, Costa Rica, the consultations focused on: how the outcome of the Talanoa Dialogue should be captured; what type of indications should be given to parties for preparing their NDCs; and how the IPCC’s Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C should be recognized.
He highlighted important factors in CTI engagement in TNAs in Bolivia, Malawi and Ghana.
During statements, Maldives, for AOSIS, SWITZERLAND, and the EU called for a COP decision on the outcome of the Talanoa Dialogue.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, called for an omnibus decision that will include all items related to the Paris Agreement.
Spain, with Mexico, requested including numbers on the changes in the cryosphere from Figure 1.1 of the longer report.
JAPAN, SINGAPORE and the EU said the IMO and ICAO are the suitable places to address these issues.
A contact group agreed to China’s request to include a reference to year-to-year variability in carbon dioxide concentrations, as well as to the UK’s proposal to attribute increased atmospheric concentrations to carbon dioxide emissions.
JAPAN, BANGLADESH and CANADA stressed country-specific approaches.
Qatar, on behalf of the G-77/China, noted the impacts of recent climate-related disasters on developing countries and emphasized Annex I Parties 92 responsibility for financial resource mobilization for adaptation, stressing the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
The EU, Japan, Australia and Canada underlined the CDM 92s role in advancing technology transfer to developing countries.
VENEZUELA and KUWAIT requested that the record reflect their reservations on the same issue.
Brazil, supported by Argentina, South Africa and others, and opposed by the US and Saudi Arabia, proposed to host an expert meeting, with a view to develop a technical paper.
CHINA expressed concern over the decrease in Canada’s pre-Copenhagen pledge of 20% by 2020 relative to 2006 levels to 17% by 2020 relative to 2005, noting that this represents movement in the wrong direction.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, accepted the proposal, but stressed that discussion under Item 5  should allow time for Articles 2.3 and 3.14.
On supplementarity in the guidelines under Article 7, the US, supported by CANADA, highlighted the lack of legal context of a Chinese proposal specifying the aim of reducing per capita emissions differences between developed and developing countries.
On paragraph 13 , GHANA, supported by the EU, proposed deleting "encouragement" from the elements to be included in conclusions and recommendations.
INDIA and CHINA proposed deletion of a paragraph that calls on the CG to consider steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the FCCC.
Saudi Arabia and the G-77/China opposed, and Saudi Arabia stated that either all or no paragraphs should be deferred to the meeting in December 2007.
The EU, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, outlined a sequence in the mitigation cycle: a strategic review of implementation in the context of science; communication and commitments, involving the submission of NDCs; an ex ante process to gain an aggregate sense of NDCs in relation to the temperature goal; and the formalization of NDCs.
He proposed, supported by AUSTRALIA, NORWAY, the EU and others, to: begin with an exchange of ideas in a plenary setting and then engage in contact or spin-off groups; capture progress in a co-chairs’ reflection note; and invite focused and technical submissions by parties.
The EU welcomed the perceived convergence towards temporary crediting and, with TUVALU, underscored the importance of socioeconomic and environmental impact criteria.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, highlighted early production of a consolidated text as important to ensure reflection before the closure of the session.
 In paragraph 1, which recommends that the COP establish a follow-up process, Iran, supported by Venezuela, recommended replacing "establish" a follow-up process with "continue."
BELGIUM, for the EU, highlighted outstanding issues on the mechanisms requiring resolution, including the election of the Executive Board of the CDM.
TUVALU, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that consequential amendments, which arise from the amendment of Annex B, must be considered to ensure legal consistency with the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, with Canada, proposed moving the cluster on plans and strategies after the cluster on definition and scope of NAMAs, with Canada clarifying that plans and strategies provide framing for NAMAs.
BRAZIL, with COLOMBIA, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and MOROCCO, said decisions on baselines should be taken by a politically-appointed body, such as the Executive Board.
Supported by Lesotho, for the LDCs, Spain, for the EU, PANAMA, SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA, COLOMBIA, MALAWI, the PHILIPPINES and NORWAY, AOSIS proposed requesting the Secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the options for limiting global average temperature increase to below 1.5°C and 2°C.
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, said these were Party issues, and noted his support for full transparency.
This group of \'Friends\' consisted of four members of the EU, four other OECD country representatives, two OPEC countries, two Eastern European countries, and delegates from the Green Group.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, called for stronger linkages between the TM and the financial mechanism.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS said the workshop last week showed that emissions reduction was not a matter of “if,” but “when” and “how much more.” A possible 80% loss of land in the Marshall Islands makes this issue more than dangerous.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU and Japan, supported including this item on the agenda.
The G-77/CHINA, with ARGENTINA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern over lack of progress on this issue and said developed countries are failing to meet their COP-7 obligations.
South Africa, speaking for the G-77/China, called for “deep and ambitious” commitments from Annex I parties.
The GAMBIA, with ALGERIA, the SUDAN and ZAMBIA, expressed concern over reiterating these positions and called for good faith discussions under the Protocol.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, and several developing countries, stressed the need to achieve a higher level of ambition.
The G-77/China, the US and India continued to discuss the language in a small group.
Supporting Brazil, CHINA opposed the introduction of new concepts, saying diverting from the principles and provisions of the Convention makes progress difficult.
Egypt questioned how the case studies would be selected and, supported by the US, called for parallel emphasis on the local, regional, national and global scales.
 In the ensuing discussion, Australia responded to a question by Tuvalu, noting that the pilot project was not about creating credits but about working out methodologies that would create enough certainties for a market to be able to function.
The US, supported by UZBEKISTAN,
The LDCs, NEW ZEALAND and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA said triggers could be linked to the transparency framework, with AILAC noting the transparency framework as only one input.
Brazil asked India whether they had considered existing methodological approaches such as the CDM.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged Annex I parties to close the gap between the current emission reduction pledges and what is required by science.
On whether project activity types could be placed on  , based on technologies, the host party, or project scale, Senegal, supported by Brazil, India, and the Gambia, highlighted the proven additionality of small-scale renewable technology.
Sudan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , called for an open, party-driven, transparent, and inclusive process that focuses on implementing the Bali Action Plan.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that effective participation of all developing countries would be ensured.
Mali, for the African Group, welcomed the TEMs, particularly on adaptation, and called for “more than workshops,” for identifying and scaling up actions on the ground.
On Thursday, 4 December, delegates presented their views on this item, with the Russian Federation, Belarus and Slovenia reporting that the decline in emissions in their countries is due to the decoupling of GDP and emissions, and not due to economic decline.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said: Annex I commitments should take the form of nationwide targets; 1990 should remain the base year; LULUCF architecture should not change; and the share of proceeds should be extended to emissions trading and joint implementation as a source of funding for adaptation.
On Friday, in the revised chapter outline, Switzerland, Spain and Luxembourg asked for disaggregated data on AFOLU’s component sectors.
India, Saudi Arabia and Argentina called for technical papers.
Honduras, for SICA, expressed “deep concern” over delays concerning the second commitment period under the Protocol, stressing the need for urgent progress.
Sudan, for the African Group, suggested separating the ideas of catalyzing and enhancing adaptation action from issues related to support.
CARICOM, the US, Singapore, the Cook Islands and Switzerland, opposed by El Salvador, called for INDCs to focus on mitigation.
BOLIVIA noted that the EU’s presentation shows that the impact of the various options would be between -1.2% and -2%, stressed that this range is very small and said parties can discuss Annex I aggregate emission reductions, since the potential impacts of the various LULUCF options are known.
Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries , emphasized the need for improved predictability of financial flows through addressing ex ante information, and highlighted loss and damage as a critical component of the global response to climate change.
The EU and PERU, opposed by MALAYSIA, said the issue should be considered as part of IPCC 92s TAR.
 AUSTRALIA, MICRONESIA and ARGENTINA differentiated projects under development from those being implemented.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, offered a proposal to insert a collective mid-term goal and then agree on a process to negotiate pledges leading to at least a 40% reduction by 2020.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized that it is premature to determine that there will be two phases.
On "revegetation," the EU, NORWAY and PERU noted the need for a corresponding definition of "de-vegetation."
 In the heading of a paragraph on synergies between mitigation and sustainable development, text was added at the request of India, supported by China, to indicate that changing development patterns “may require resources to overcome multiple barriers.”
The US said the current structure is not easily comprehensible and noted overlaps, while Australia noted the SYR should integrate, rather than summarize, the three WG reports and that mitigation and adaptation should be addressed simultaneously.
AOSIS said they were prepared to move forward and, with SOUTH AFRICA, hoped that the consolidated paragraphs could become the basis of a negotiating document.
Opposed by the G-77/China, Australia suggested welcoming "significant" progress in the implementation of 5/CP.7.
On paragraph 5 , Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested deleting the reference to the objective of illustrating the progress made, saying it is duplicative.
 In a paragraph dealing with outstanding issues on QELROs, KENYA, supported by the US, FRANCE and GERMANY, noted that it was left open whether the level of emission reductions should be politically or scientifically based.
The G-77/CHINA said MRV of finance from developed countries is missing in finance , and INDIA urged inclusion of such MRV in transparency .
On additional guidance to the operating entity of the financial mechanism, UGANDA, supported by GHANA, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and BANGLADESH, called for capacity-building for national focal points and for technology transfer.
CHINA, IRAN, the LDCs and ECUADOR called for quantitative commitments and, with the pledge of US$100 billion per year by 2020 as a starting point, proposed, with IRAN, a roadmap for scaling up finance post-2020.
Japan, Honduras and several Latin American Parties, opposed by Tuvalu, proposed deleting the list of requirements for project activities.
On institutional arrangements, South Africa, China, India, Iran, Tanzania, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and others, opposed by Canada, Japan, the EU, the US and others, supported the establishment of an international capacity-building mechanism.
Parties further discussed transparency of mitigation actions, with Norway and Bolivia calling for clear rules on emission reduction accounting.
Delegates were unable to take action on the adequacy of commitments or to begin negotiations on a draft protocol submitted by AOSIS or the proposals for further elements of a protocol submitted by Germany.
Algeria, for the African Group, urged Annex I countries to adopt ambitious targets.
UGANDA said policies and political will were required, and, supported by ARGENTINA, urged promoting South-South cooperation in transferring adaptation technologies.
Switzerland, on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group , said the CDM should be based on an incremental approach, JI should follow a two-track approach, and liability under emissions trading should be linked to the nature and scope of the enforcement branch of the compliance regime.
The US proposed scheduling future meetings so that they end on Thursday, while SAUDI ARABIA observed that ending on Wednesday would serve the interests of more parties.
AUSTRIA and NORWAY supported BRAZIL 92s reservation on estimates from flooded lands and cautioned against possible inconsistencies in the methodologies when used at the project level.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for full implementation of the LDC work programme and integration of recommendations of the 2013-2015 Review in the ongoing ADP discussions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Brazil, also on behalf of Argentina and Uruguay, stressed the need for in-depth dialogue on the governance and operational modalities of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
LPAA partners, namely Peru, France and the UNFCCC Secretariat, provided an overview of the LPAA outcomes, including commitments made by non-party stakeholders and 70 climate action coalitions that have been mobilized across 12 action areas.
AOSIS, with Bhutan, noted that the objective should be to address the urgent and immediate needs of developing countries, especially SIDS, LDCs and African countries, and called for mechanisms for addressing loss and damage to be captured as part of the scope.
Parties agreed that, in line with previous practice, the item would be kept open and COP 21 Vice-President Cheikh Ndiaye Sylla  would report to the closing plenary on proposals by Japan , Tuvalu , Australia , Costa Rica , the US  and Grenada .
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said Copenhagen should produce a robust and resilient foundation to steer collective efforts, and welcomed discussions on a shared vision.
 The EU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, said that this issue should be addressed through the REDD+ discussions under the AWG-LCA and LULUCF discussions under the AWG-KP.
New Zealand, supported by Australia and Norway, proposed a template as a flexible tool to capture information on pledges, including on sectors, metrics, gases and timeframes covered.
The Gambia, for LDCs, stressed the need to define appropriate policy incentives for REDD+ to ensure adequate and predictable funding for developing countries.
In the contact group, on an alternative paragraph inviting the Secretariat to enhance existing practices for the facilitation of non-party stakeholder participation, parties, including Ecuador, the Russia Federation and the US, expressed diverging views.
Bolivia, supported by Nicaragua, called for also analyzing the 1°C target.
  On Thursday, El Salvador, supported by Nicaragua, called for reference to the specific circumstances of Central America as a particularly sensitive tropical area at the intersection of two ocean systems.
The EU, the US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA said the proposal requires broader discussion and expressed concern about, inter alia: the method for reconstructing historical emissions; indicators that ignore the rate of change; and the availability of data.
NORWAY, opposed by MEXICO, suggested its deletion, saying the issue was captured elsewhere.
On the section on the context for the AR5 , Canada, the UK and the US underlined the importance of addressing vulnerability to climate change, with the US noting that discussions on vulnerabilities in sectoral chapters should be linked to those in a separate chapter on key vulnerabilities.
The EU, with Japan and the US, suggested deletion of the entire paragraph if it lacks agreement.
The EU and G-77/CHINA accepted unbracketed text on equitable geographical distribution among regions, but the US proposed dividing membership equally between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties and suggested that "equitable geographical distribution" be replaced with "with one half to be designated by Annex I-Parties and one half to be designated by non-Annex I Parties."
On net zero emissions, Japan and the Philippines suggested removing the term “net zero” and leaving it as “assessing current and emerging mitigation options and associated opportunities and challenges.” Norway called for keeping reference to net zero, saying it is important to address issues relevant to achieving a balance between emissions and removals by sinks.
SWITZERLAND, with AOSIS, supported using the EU proposal as the basis for the COP-6 decision.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for regional adaptation platforms, while NEW ZEALAND suggested strengthening existing regional initiatives.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, the US, SWITZERLAND, CANADA and NORWAY said the third national communication should be due in 2001.
On common metrics to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalence of emissions by sources and removals by sinks, AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed coherence with concurrent negotiations underway in the AWG-LCA, and the US urged Protocol parties to avoid creating inconsistencies between the two negotiating tracks in this respect.
GUYANA, PARAGUAY and PAPUA NEW GUINEA underscored the need to address permanence and leakage, with AUSTRALIA noting that environmental safeguards should be worked into the operational language.
Several delegations, including KUWAIT, CANADA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, and the EU objected.
NORWAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the US, said this was not realistic.
  The G-77/CHINA, the EU and others supported parallel consideration of adaptation and mitigation.
Responding to AUSTRALIA on harnessing solar energy potential, he: noted Portugal e2 80 99s EU-defined and national renewable energy targets of 31% by 2020 and 40% by 2030 of final energy consumption, respectively; and said Portugal has a national plan to promote renewables, with future capacity increases expected to come from solar energy and biomass.
Philip Gwage, Assistant Commissioner, Applied Meteorology and Data Processing, Ministry of Land, Water and Environment of Uganda, considered the impacts of response measures on LDCs.
Togo and China stressed financial and technological needs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for progress on the work programme on market- and non-market-based approaches.
On nuclear energy in the CDM, GREECE and TUVALU opposed inclusion.
The US explained that work in Durban was “painstakingly negotiated” and, supported by AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, MEXICO and AOSIS, opposed the proposal to establish a spin-off group.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to enhance the implementation of commitments and delimiting parameters for future work to be done.
The EU and SWITZERLAND emphasized the importance of historical data sets.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for recording adaptation communications in the public NDC registry maintained by the Secretariat.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and INDONESIA said information should be made available with enough time for its consideration.
Saudi Arabia stressed the need to consider economic and social consequences of response measures and, with Ghana, urged considering expanding the list of greenhouse gases.
This was opposed by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
On the issues to be addressed by COP 17, Papua New Guinea, with the US, Ghana, Australia, Indonesia, the European Union , Guyana and Switzerland, said Appendix II of Decision 1/CP.16 on the work programme should form the basis for discussions.
COLOMBIA, supported by GRENADA, the PHILIPPINES and BARBADOS, called for a joint discussion of emission reductions by all Annex I countries.
Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted observer engagement and agreement on the workshop to consider this issue.
The EU, with Japan, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the US, recommended that the options on the compliance committee 92s composition be kept open.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented the overall lack of reference to equity, CBDR, mitigation obligations of developed countries, and specific national and regional development priorities.
 Barbados, for AOSIS, stated that he could not accept the proposed SBSTA conclusions on this item.
Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group , called for living up to the promises made in Paris and stressed that delaying work beyond COP 24 is not an option.
Saudi Arabia said the Delhi Declaration was well balanced, and Nigeria noted that the Declaration recognized the needs of the developing world and pointed the way to new avenues of cooperation between the North and South.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized that the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol needs to be implementable on 1 January 2013, for an eight-year period.
While the buzz had somewhat subsided by the time of WGII in Brussels, the story of China’s and Saudi Arabia’s confrontation with the Lead Authors made the headlines around the world.
Supporting Brazil, China opposed the introduction of new concepts, saying diverting from the principles and provisions of the Convention makes progress difficult.
The US, supported by Hungary, suggested adding language on the indicative nature of the bullet points under each chapter of the outline, and, with Norway, Germany and others, on the need for the assessment to be based on peer-reviewed literature in accordance with IPCC principles.
The EU, opposed by the LDCs, suggested addressing the mitigation cycle in the mitigation section, and considering the adaptation and finance cycles in their respective sections.
The G-77/China, Mexico, South Africa and Colombia drew linkages between mitigation and MOI.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by CHINA, encouraged the AWG-LCA Chair to prepare a revised text.
On the various options for the Protocol\'s amendment in the Chair’s text, CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others, supported discussing them at this meeting but retaining all of them on the table.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported a transition towards a climate change framework including all major economies, taking into account countries’ respective capabilities.
This proposal was opposed by Australia, the US and Saudi Arabia.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized the need to provide guidance to constituted bodies.
Singapore, supported by Panama, welcomed progress made by the IMO and ICAO in addressing climate change in their respective sectors.
The US and Benin said that any such proposal should be reviewed by the full membership of both subsidiary bodies and the COW agreed to recommend this formulation to COP-1.
China, supported by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, stressed that the document was intended to facilitate discussion and should not be used as a basis for negotiations.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and UKRAINE, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed deleting this paragraph.
 AUSTRALIA and PANAMA supported AIJ workshops and a uniform reporting format that is not onerous for developing countries.
On their proposal, Spain, for the EU, highlighted, inter alia: enhanced reporting of capacity building best practices through national communications in order to enable monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the capacity building framework; and the indicative list of items to consider for further implementation of decision 2/CP.7 .
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted a constructive atmosphere and stressed the need for the facilitative sharing of views under international consultation and analysis  to begin by Paris.
BARBADOS, supported by the US, the EU, GRENADA, AUSTRALIA and others, said that the COP Vice-President has been elected to serve by the COP and calls for his removal are “unjustified” and “unfortunate.”
The EU noted that the announcements by Japan, Canada and the Russian Federation to not commit to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol constitute a step backwards that will influence the political context.
SWITZERLAND, supported by KOREA, BELGIUM, and others, noted that referring only to stabilization and not to reduction of greenhouse gas concentrations is prescriptive.
On pre-session briefings, the UK supported the aims of holding pre-session briefings but, with the US, France and Germany noted the budgetary implications of such meetings.
On a paragraph on communication of the mitigation component of INDCs, NORWAY suggested: adding reference to unconditionality of efforts by all, while maintaining a reference to enhanced efforts by developing countries made possible with provision of support; and recognizing the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, with the latter proposal supported by the LDCs, with some amendments.
Following the introduction of the draft text from the mechanisms group, SAUDI ARABIA said the G-77/CHINA was not in a position to comment on the text.
The EU noted that the discounted forest management value proposed by Croatia exceeds the value provided by the FAO, and said the matter should be forwarded to SBSTA for consideration once the question of the base-year emissions has been resolved.
Norway said the meeting in Cancun has: restored confidence in the UN; taken major steps forward on many issues; and put the “climate train on the track to Durban and success.” Panama expressed optimism that in the months to come, parties will be able to make good progress, including on the GCF and a more progressive CDM.
The EU and a group of Annex I Parties, including Australia, Canada, Iceland, New Zealand, Norway, the Russian Federation and the US  distributed draft decisions and discussion documents.
With UGANDA and NORWAY, he supported basing definitions on those agreed for Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, with GUYANA, SURINAME and CAMEROON, supported the AWG-LCA Chair’s proposal, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA highlighting that Tuvalu does not represent forested countries.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized improving and extending TEMs until the mitigation ambition gap is closed, and indicated their outputs should include: updated technical papers; a dynamic online “menu” of policy options; focus on co-benefits of actions, barriers to implementation and strategies to overcome them; and a synthesis for policy makers.
On the various options related to the Clean Development Mechanism , the EU, Japan and the Federated States of Micronesia supported retaining the option related to the development of  , while Brazil, Argentina, China and others preferred not addressing the issue, therefore supporting the option “no decision.”
The Marshall Islands, Zambia, and Botswana underscored the need for support to national focal points in developing countries in order to undertake scoping activities to ensure the necessary involvement of experts.
Responding to a question from China on the source of this information, Mer 9ae said Slovenia is carrying out energy audits, and that precise data on some energy technologies is available for bigger companies.
On reporting efforts to address potential consequences, the EU, with Canada, noted that reporting requirements already exist.
Swaziland, for the African Group, emphasized that the Group will not accept the 2015 agreement if adaptation and enhanced adaptation support are not central to it.
Maldives, for AOSIS, suggested that the findings of the 2013-2015 review underscored that the “guardrail” concept, which implies a warming limit that guarantees full protection from dangerous anthropogenic interference, is inadequate, calling for pushing the “defence line” as low as possible.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and ALGERIA, stressed the need for additional work on the historical responsibility for climate change and on equity issues.
AUSTRALIA, with SWITZERLAND and the EU, suggested that they are not ready to support option B in the second commitment period.
The draft proposal on the status of the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.9  was agreed with brackets remaining around the reference to the three other decisions on LDCs, at the request of the US.
He called on the US to adopt legally-binding, economy-wide emission reduction commitments and on China to adopt binding actions, urging these countries to “unleash their full potential” to enable the world to achieve the objective of limiting the global temperature increase to below 2°C.
On the annual or periodic reporting and review of Protocol Article 3.14 , Co-Chair Plume said the Co-Chairs would, with the participation of Saudi Arabia, the US and EU, consult with the Co-Chairs of the contact group on adverse effects and explain the difficulties in completing the guidelines without the latter group having finished its work.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said the amalgamation document does not fully reflect the status of negotiations in the informal groups, and should not be used as the basis for negotiation.
The G-77/China also stressed that the financial institutions that “we have now” are “empty shells” and, with the African Group and many developing countries, expressed concern over the finance gap between 2012 and 2020.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, highlighted concerns relating to predictability and adequacy of funding.
 : On this item , Malawi, for the LDCs, said that no new bodies should be established.
Sudan, for LDCs, said public funding must be the major source for REDD+ implementation, and highlighted the need to: address REDD+ under a socioeconomic development context; and adequately consider non-carbon benefits and national implementation risks.
Calling for a strong outcome in Copenhagen, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed that it is not acceptable to begin a new roadmap in Copenhagen and said that the non-papers from the Bangkok session provide a good basis for substantive progress in Barcelona.
CANADA, supported by NORWAY, the UK, and US, stressed the need for strengthening references in the text to the country-driven approach, national circumstances and sustainable development.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged the Co-Facilitators’ notes to be “significantly more advanced” in their next iteration, and said any additional negotiating session before COP 24 must focus on the PAWP.
Switzerland and Australia called for completion of negotiations by 1998.
 CHINA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and IRAN, stated that substance and functions of an MCP should be discussed before its form, and suggested that an MCP could be an ad hoc committee.
MALDIVES, UGANDA and others stressed the linkage between capacity building and technology transfer.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, looked forward to working with the Co-Chairs to meet the tight deadline of 2018.
Canada and China called for practical solutions based on market trends and demand.
The LDCs emphasized, with CHINA and INDIA, that work under workstream 2 must e2 80 9cshift gears e2 80 9d from technical examination to concrete implementation.
In the draft text, the PHILIPPINES, supported by BANGLADESH, introduced language reflecting the human rights consequences of a global average temperature increase of 2 c2 b0C.
ALGERIA, CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, IRAN, NICARAGUA, JORDAN, GABON and VENEZUELA called for direct negotiations with parties e2 80 99 texts on the screen.
BANGLADESH suggested updating the technical paper on transforming pledges into QELROs  and, supported by the EU, that targets be expressed in gigatonnes.
New Zealand and Brazil also called for addressing greenhouse gas metrics in a cross-cutting manner, and Japan suggested that greenhouse gas metrics be dealt with by WG I first.
The LDCs and the EU supported convening a high-level forum before Doha, with the EU suggesting a focus on such issues as hydrofluorocarbons , bunker fuels, REDD+, fossil fuel subsidies and private-sector finance.
Colombia said the AILAC proposal is for: a global transformational goal; a short-term quantitative goal with a list of commitments by parties; and a dynamic process to scale-up the quantitative goal, which considers national budgetary cycles and responds to changing needs and capabilities.
Benin stressed the need to improve the geographical distribution of CDM projects, while New Zealand warned of difficulties in dictating geographical and sectoral distribution of projects.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the AGBM is on a separate track.
NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for a two-phase process.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized that progress in the negotiations should be made based on COP 15’s outcomes, including the Copenhagen Accord, and expressed conviction that agreement can be reached at COP 16.
JAPAN, opposed by BRAZIL, supported addressing simplified modalities.
On  , a proposal was presented by Australia, Canada, the EU and the Russian Federation, identifying key elements of what might constitute force majeure.
The US, supported by BRAZIL, CANADA and JAPAN, proposed compromise text replacing e2 80 9cthe ADP e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cthe broader UNFCCC.
Sudan supported helping a new generation of scholars and scientists, particularly in the Least Developed Countries.
The EU, Canada and Japan, opposed by the G-77/ China, said they could accept the Co-Chairs 92 text.
The G-77/CHINA, with AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, highlighted non-tariff trade barriers.
Germany, the Maldives, Hungary, Belgium, Japan, Norway, and the UK supported extending the mandate of the ATG-Finance.
Pakistan proposed quantifying the measurable, reportable and verifiable  support by developed countries to developing countries, leading to the same level of emission reductions, and Bolivia suggested quantification in relation to changes in developed countries’ consumption patterns and compensation to developing countries for lost development opportunities.
Saint Kitts and Nevis, supported by Cuba, Comoros, and Trinidad and Tobago, proposed adding reference to small island developing states as a priority group for the Scholarship Programme, Costa Rica proposed prioritizing women, and Botswana suggested a focus on Africa.
JAPAN, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the relevance of these issues to all parties, said both negative and positive implications should be considered, and highlighted co-benefits.
CANADA stressed its interest in substantive discussions on the matter, and said project capacity building would be guided by Canada ef bf bds principles on strengthening aid effectiveness.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: agreement on results-based objectives; conformity with Convention principles; and consideration of mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation.
Sweden, for the European Union , stressed that a new agreement should build on the Kyoto Protocol.
MALAYSIA, NICARAGUA and IRAN queried the change in the title of the elements document, emphasizing it remained a e2 80 9cnon-paper.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AILAC, the EU and the US, suggested the Secretariat undertake “technical work” to streamline duplications and overlaps in the text.
The US and NEW ZEALAND questioned the value of a political process at this stage, given that the previous commitments to fast- start finance made in Copenhagen and Cancun were achieved.
On Nature, Australia, the EU, the Russian Federation and the US preferred no express provision.
Grenada, for AOSIS, welcomed the proposals made in Panama to address the environmental integrity of the Kyoto Protocol, and called for enhanced effects to increase support for adaptation through share of proceeds under the CDM.
 The Philippines and Peru did not believe that the GEF has been adequately restructured, especially with regard to universality of participation.
On the impact of response measures on the economies of oil producing and other countries, SAUDI ARABIA referred to recent studies suggesting oil producing countries will suffer economically from response measures and, with KUWAIT and LIBYA, said developed countries should remove market distortions in the energy sector.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress in the AWG-KP.
  In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiating sessions: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
With BRAZIL, INDIA, MALAYSIA and PAKISTAN, he urged discussing paragraphs 1 and 1 of the BAP separately, while JAPAN preferred discussing them together.
The COOK ISLAND stated that Saudi Arabia had also participated in these discussions and that concessions had been made to accommodate their views.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by ALBA, suggested a focus on a possible amendment to Annex B.
Responding to the US proposal, TANZANIA suggested using the structure in place under the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund to address issues of governance and access.
The Netherlands, supported by Brazil, recommended developing an online database and methodology to provide flexible and comparable regional information and climate models.
  ARGENTINA objected to the UK’s inclusion of Islas Malvinas/Falklands Islands and other South Atlantic islands in its national communications, citing sovereignty disputes.
BURKINA FASO and MOROCCO said all countries should be eligible for participation.
TUVALU, opposed by NORWAY, cautioned against e2 80 9cdowngrading e2 80 9d sections of the text into COP decisions.
CANADA and SWITZERLAND supported a proposal made by New Zealand requesting SBSTA to explore the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects of how adaptation and mitigation each link to other issues, such as sustainable development and UNFCCC Article 2 .
Switzerland, supported by the G-77/China, proposed the inclusion of non-Annex I national communications on the agenda.
Saudi Arabia, China, Costa Rica, on behalf of the G-77/China, Iran, Venezuela, India and Kuwait said that developing countries did not have the time to analyze the SAR and that the list of highlights would bias the SBSTA\'s conclusions against those countries that did not have the opportunity to evaluate the report.
This item was taken up in presidency consultations on matters related to finance, co-facilitated by Yasmine Fouad, Minister of Environment, Egypt, and Jochen Flasbarth, State Secretary at the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Germany.
The EU and Benin appealed to Japan not to insist, but Japan stood firm.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized that the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol needs to be implementable on 1 January 2013, for an eight-year period.
IPCC Vice-Chair Barrett suggested putting the Principle 10 text in a footnote, which was supported by the Netherlands, the Russian Federation, France, the US, Ireland, Algeria, and Norway.
Japan, Benin and South Africa supported the idea of standardized baselines, with South Africa adding that these should be used in conjunction with existing additionality tools.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA said the GPG provides the necessary guidelines for reporting and should be adopted.
  On CCS , NORWAY, KUWAIT, CANADA, the EU, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN and others, opposed by BRAZIL, MICRONESIA and others, supported inclusion of CCS projects under the CDM.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern over the slow progress in Bangkok, and urged all parties to make greater commitments, and advance in a balanced and equitable manner on both Convention tracks.
The US said that the Convention was developed on the basis of proposals that did not identify the sources, and, supported by NORWAY, cautioned against establishing a new practice.
This was supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EU, JAPAN, and AUSTRALIA.
Sweden, with Norway and the Netherlands, opposed by Sudan, requested the inclusion of air pollution in relation to co-benefits and this was reflected in the amendment to the outline.
INDIA, ARGENTINA and NORWAY called for including the state of adaptation support.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stated that a shared vision should articulate thematic areas of the Bali Action Plan towards the achievement of a long-term global goal and that the global goal for emission reductions should be expressed in such a way as to guide actions in a political and technical way.
The EU, inter alia: lamented Bonn’s lengthy agenda discussion; praised efforts to enable LDCs to prepare, plan and implement adaptation actions; welcomed proposals to enhance the participation of observer organizations; welcomed progress on the work programme on loss and damage; and noted that response measures is a mitigation issue and should not be addressed under adaptation.
The US and INDIA noted that some paragraph options could be further streamlined.
With AUSTRIA, CANADA and BARBADOS, he requested more time for consultations.
The Netherlands, supported by Norway, Luxembourg, Spain, Hungary and Belgium, preferred maintaining reference to circular economy, as the concept relates to sustainable production and consumption, but Saudi Arabia opposed.
Emphasizing the need to allow time for group coordination, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested addressing sections of the text thematically and, supported by Jamaica, for AOSIS, beginning with streamlining the text on monitoring and evaluation.
CHINA and BRAZIL stressed the subjective nature of such factors and KUWAIT, JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA and others highlighted the need to avoid complexity.
The meeting included the launch of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  and Climate Policy Initiative report “Climate Finance in 2013-2014 and the USD 100 Billion Goal,” which was commissioned by France and Peru.
Chair Estrada noted a lack of consensus on the proposal from the group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova  regarding a clear definition of the term "developing countries" and the status of the group in the context of COP decisions, including those prepared at COP-6 Part II.
The LDCs, with Brazil, China, the Arab Group, the African Group and the LMDCs, emphasized that submission of INDCs by developing countries is contingent on support.
On the Chair’s “document 4” , the EU, SWITZERLAND and others stressed the importance of considering the document.
On information submitted under Article 7.2 , the EU, supported by Saudi Arabia and opposed by the US, Canada, New Zealand and Australia, proposed reporting on "demonstrable progress."
On Thursday, many countries, including Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, France, Belgium, Sweden and Slovenia, supported creation of an executive body to act on behalf of the panel between sessions and creation of a task group to continue work on its functions and ToR.
On actions necessary to meet needs and concerns of developing countries, the US and the EU proposed following the language of FCCC Article 4.8.
Guatemala, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , stressed, among others, cooperative approaches as providing additional financial resources to facilitate achievement of NDCs.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed the distribution of new draft documents, expressing a preference for the Secretariat’s draft terms of reference .
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for developing indicative milestones for upcoming sessions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, highlighted the 2018 facilitative dialogue as a key moment in history to bring collective ambition in line with science.
Egypt, for the League of Arab States, said the UNFCCC is the single framework for global intervention on climate change and underscored the need to negotiate officially within this framework.
Most South American countries supported emission reductions for developed countries and the need for technology transfer, but joint implementation caused a rift, with Chile, Costa Rica, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Uruguay and Peru in favor and Brazil against.
On reporting under Articles 10  and 11 , the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and EU, said Annex I Parties should also be requested to report on the implementation of their commitments related to the transfer of technologies and the provision of "new and additional" financial resources.
The US, supporting Ireland, noted that the IPCC is a unique organization with unique election rules, so it is not possible to foresee every circumstance that may occur.
CHILE, COSTA RICA and PERU supported beginning work immediately on all elements of the Durban Platform.
Tanzania and Egypt expressed unease that the different pace and methodologies of the facilitated groups could lead to inconsistencies.
Tuvalu, opposed by China and the US, suggested not referring to the need to progress on all items in a “balanced” manner, noting that some issues can be dealt with quickly.
On Monday morning, 10 March, Joseph Howard, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Planning, Housing and Environment, Trinidad and Tobago, welcomed participants and opened the meeting.
The EU stressed the need for progress under the AWG-LCA, and JAPAN called for discussing overarching issues in an appropriate setting.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, stressed that the Green Climate Fund must not become an “empty basket” of false promises and called on developed countries to contribute with 1.5% of their GDP.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the US, stressed the need to keep the two AWGs as separate and parallel processes, while NEW ZEALAND and others highlighted their interlinkages.
Noting the importance of transparency, the G-77/China, Mexico, and Malaysia, for the Like-Minded Developing Countries , opposed by Japan, called for observers to be allowed to sit in the spin-off groups.
Indicating flexibility on period length, Switzerland, with Norway, emphasized that all parties should communicate their commitments at the same time.
Panama, also speaking for Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and the Dominican Republic, said negotiations should be based on the report of AWG-LCA 8 to the COP, noting that text on several issues, such as technology transfer, capacity building and adaptation, is well-developed.
Following concern expressed by the US and the EU on the need for an expeditious procedure on eligibility, the Secretariat said he hoped to gather experience by 2008, solve issues before the beginning of the first commitment period, and find ways to expedite the review process.
EGYPT, with the G-77/CHINA, urged funding of stand-alone projects.
Kyrgyzstan, for the Group of Mountainous Land-locked countries, including Armenia, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, announced the establishment of this new group to raise awareness under the UNFCCC of the challenges faced by mountainous land-locked countries, and invited other countries with similar challenges to join the group.
The contact group was then suspended following a request from the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, to enable the Group to coordinate.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, said Annex I commitments for the second commitment period should be 93substantially stricter 94 than the first commitment period and the task of deciding on the details and rules of the second commitment period should be completed by 2008.
The EU, with Germany and Switzerland, suggested also referring to resource use efficiency or “material substitution,” for example in the construction sector, and called for inserting language on the percentage of electricity demand in the building sector.
Spain, with Saudi Arabia and Chile, and opposed by France, requested inclusion of efficiency, which was added to the bullet on mitigation technology options and practices.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to adopt modalities and procedures for the Adaptation Committee.
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, cited marginalization in the process, and requested that their special needs be considered.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said he is still waiting to see a concrete outcome on finance as a “necessary component” of a package in Doha.
The US called for constructive dialogue on the flexibility mechanisms and noted the similarities between the UK and Canadian papers on emissions trading.
New Zealand, for a group of UMBRELLA GROUP countries, proposed establishing parameters for nationally determined contributions .
The US and CANADA presented a proposal for the phase-in of forest management under Article 3.4 , stressing that it contained incentives to implement additional sequestration activities.
Madagascar, Russian Federation, Brazil and Venezuela preferred not having a stand-alone volume on regional aspects.
CHINA and the PHILIPPINES wanted to add that it is mainly the role of Annex II Parties to carry out such activities.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, with Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States , recommended that parties commence work on the items traditionally included in the SBSTA agenda while consulting on the proposed new items.
Spain, for the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, and AOSIS requested that the Secretariat compile information on developed country pledges.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted, inter alia: the importance of reaching a decision on response measures by COP 21; progress on adaptation as an urgent priority for developing countries; disappointment over lack of progress on capacity building; and the need to provide support to enable the full and effective participation of developing countries in meetings.
Pakistan expressed concern about the lack of progress on collective and individual emission reductions and India noted that the level of pledged emission reductions and various conditionalities attached to those are much lower than necessary.
 Malta outlined its proposal to join Annex I , noting that by joining the EU in 2004 it has taken on responsibilities in line with those of Annex I parties.
The EU, with Monaco, for the EIG, indicated readiness to move forward on REDD+, markets and clarification of methodologies applicable to the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, regretting lack of agreement on these issues.
The EU, IRAN, SOUTH AFRICA and SAUDI ARABIA said the review should address finance and adaptation.
The EU and JAPAN welcomed the GEF’s report, while the G-77/CHINA said the report deviates from the Bali mandate.
In response to the US 92 suggestion that non-Annex I Parties provide regular updates to their greenhouse gas inventories, the G-77/CHINA said that inventories are a 93non-issue 94 in the context of the contact group 92s work as no COP decisions require such updates and therefore the contact group should not address inventories.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, with Bolivia for the LMDCs, stressed the Convention’s principles and the importance of enabling all parties to take part in the negotiations related to the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
The US, ARGENTINA, the EU, VENEZUELA, SURINAME, COLOMBIA, EGYPT, SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL, AUSTRALIA, the PHILIPPINES, ECUADOR, SWITZERLAND, INDONESIA, CHINA, COSTA RICA, SINGAPORE, MALAYSIA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO supported this approach.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, she called for the issue to be included on the SBI 35 agenda under the item on further guidance to the GEF.
The US said that it had decided not to propose several amendments in light of the balanced draft conclusions, but was reconsidering the decision because of the proposals from the G-77 and AOSIS.
The EU and US pointed to the fact that the GEF reports to the COP, and said further information can be obtained on the Internet.
Echoing the same concerns, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said the group reserves its right to bring up these issues at the next SBI meeting.
 In the contact group, BRAZIL, supported by CHINA and BOLIVIA, proposed 1 January 2011 as the date of submission of Annex I sixth national communications.
The UK and Switzerland noted that there is sufficient talent in developing countries and among non-English speakers to take senior positions.
Submissions were made by Brazil on QELROs and by AOSIS, Brazil and the African Group on carryover of surplus AAUs.
SWITZERLAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, proposed the inclusion of non-Annex I national communications on the agenda.
The US, with ARGENTINA, CHILE, COLOMBIA, and VENEZUELA, argued for transparent rules of procedure.
BANGLADESH supported a multilateral CDM programme for LDCs.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , and New Zealand emphasized that agreement on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol requires resolution of technical issues on LULUCF accounting and market mechanisms.
Responding to concerns expressed by INDIA and CHINA about the “imbalance” of technology compared to other elements in the draft agreement, Co-Facilitator Mpanu-Mpanu said it maybe because the ADP Co-Chairs were “overly cautious.”
 Brazil strongly opposed JI and added that his delegation did not want to exchange \'smoke for trees.\' India said a pilot phase could be launched if no credits were allocated.
On sinks in the CDM, Costa Rica, Bolivia, Senegal and Guatemala supported their inclusion, while Ireland, Austria, Greece and Tuvalu expressed their opposition to such a proposal.
Noting that “the gap is closing little by little,” Nigeria asked parties to address issues raised by the African Group.
Venezuela, speaking on behalf of Argentina, Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia, China, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Palestine, Paraguay, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Thailand, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, expressed willingness to discuss a post-2020 mitigation framework, while recognizing the need to enhance mitigation actions in 2012-2020.
The EU, opposed by the US and MALAYSIA for G-77/CHINA, proposed an agenda item on the methodological issues relating to the stabilization of greenhouse gas emissions.
Noting that some mitigation actions may require technical or capacity-building support rather than financial support, South Africa, for the African Group, said all three aspects should be subject to MRV in order to get “a full picture” of the support provided to developing countries.
Stressing the AWG’s legal mandate, Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, expressed concern about suggestions to link the AWG with the new AWGLCA process.
CHINA, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the review of national communications as important work in which all Parties should be involved.
Noting readiness to enter into negotiations, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, urged addressing “crux” issues quickly.
The G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and THAILAND opposed the amendments.
MEXICO, INDONESIA and INDIA suggested creating a multilateral fund under the Convention with foreseeable and scalable contributions by developed countries and a transparent and inclusive governance structure.
Deletion was opposed by the G-77/China, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Venezuela and Oman.
Saint Lucia, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY, said mitigation commitments should be housed in an annex to the agreement.
The Sudan and Senegal said it was premature to decide on the inclusion of sinks, as the IPCC Special Report on LULUCF had just been released.
JAPAN, CANADA and NORWAY called for joint informal discussion, highlighting the need to engage with the US, while BRAZIL and INDIA said that delegations have members in both AWGs and can coordinate positions without having joint sessions.
The EU, CANADA and THAILAND also stressed the role of the private sector in technology transfer.
VENEZUELA, for Bolivia, Cuba and Paraguay, expressed concerns with offsetting.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed “alarm over certain elements of the report, which would hinder democratic access to resources.” She stressed that the GCF must possess international legal personality, work under the guidance of the COP and have no conflict of interest between the fiduciary and executive trustee functions.
ARGENTINA called for allowing countries to decide themselves what support they need and, with UGANDA, suggested a simple institutional framework.
Chile and CARICOM called for a definition of climate finance.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE opposed starting work without adopting the agenda.
India and South Africa said workshops could be integrated into the negotiating process.
The EU stressed that non-permanence reversals require compensation, while TUVALU suggested that current rules may be functioning and the lack of projects may reflect unwillingness of credit purchasers to bear the risk of reversals.
 The PHILIPPINES, UGANDA, INDIA, SWITZERLAND, MAURITIUS and the EU highlighted AIJ additionality to Annex II countries’ commitments.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed: the importance of advancing, and maintaining a balance among, all elements of the Paris Agreement; the need to move to textual negotiations by COP 23; and NDCs as a key vehicle for delivering enhanced action under the Paris Agreement.
Several parties, including Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, Senegal, for LDCs, and INDONESIA stressed the need: to first establish a definition and clarify the purpose of the framework; and for the scope of the approaches to be included under the framework.
The US, Australia, Canada and others supported international MRV of NAMAs.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , expressed a commitment to a strengthened, comprehensive and ambitious international climate change regime.
However, he noted that Canada, Japan and others had opposed this option and had asked the Co-Chairs for their preference to be considered at COP-7.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to strengthen coordination between the AWGs and emphasized that both AWGs should finish their work in Barcelona in November.
The US called for all Parties to submit national communications every 3-5 years, and for all Parties, with the exception of LDCs and those highly vulnerable to climate change, to submit greenhouse gas inventories every two years.
On the report of the GEF, INDIA, opposed by the EU, CANADA and SWITZERLAND, requested the deletion of text emphasizing the "successful and substantial third GEF replenishment."
Georg Borsting, JI Supervisory Committee Chair, noted that most of the 129 JI projects are in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Bulgaria and involve renewable energy, methane and energy efficiency.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, highlighted outstanding issues, including operationalization of an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol beginning on 1 January 2013, and commitment by Annex I parties to ambitious QELROs.
 , Germany, supported by France and the US, called for reporting all non-CO2 emissions from non-combustion in the energy sector.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with SOUTH AFRICA and THAILAND, stated that issues of competitiveness must be addressed.
The US and AUSTRALIA cautioned against overly prescriptive guidance to COP Presidencies on high-level engagement.
 INDIA and KUWAIT supported specifying that differentiation, as mentioned in sub-item , applies to Annex I countries.
AUSTRALIA and the US said the defending party should be able to rebut evidence against it.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, and opposed by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, requested that SBSTA conclusions take note of Canada 92s proposal for a study on the role of trade in cleaner energy in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC and the Protocol.
CHILE, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Peru and the Dominican Republic, noted that a balanced package of decisions is “neither nebulous nor vague.”
The EU, with BRAZIL, stressed the need to ensure confidentiality of information submitted in confidence by Parties.
Tuvalu and Barbados expressed disappointment at the deletion of items 3 and 4 and sought reassurance that these items would be taken up by the AWG-LCA.
Ethiopia, supported by Brazil, suggested a technical workshop.
INDIA, supported by BRAZIL, and opposed by the US, suggested compiling parties e2 80 99 submissions as the basis for a draft decision.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that P&amp;Ms should not have adverse impacts on developing country Parties.
On reporting experiences, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, NORWAY, CANADA and SWITZERLAND supported using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines during the second commitment period, but said further methodological work may be necessary.
Regarding the draft guidance for reporting on Global Climate Observation Systems , the EU, with MONGOLIA, recommended that Annex I Parties prepare separate reports on global climate observation and include in their national communications a summary based on general reporting requirements.
On Monday, 12 June, in a Joint SBI/SBTSA session, Romania, speaking on behalf of the Group of Eastern European Countries, and supported by the US, said JI and the CDM have distinct roles and should not be treated in the same way.
JAPAN and the US emphasized the role of public-private partnerships, and many Parties highlighted other technology-related initiatives.
On long-term and global aspects of adaptation, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND did not support linkages between mitigation ambition, adaptation needs, the global temperature goal and finance, with NEW ZEALAND opposing a global goal on adaptation.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, supported a consistent approach to the work of the Subsidiary Bodies in order to make meaningful progress on related agenda items such as adaptation, technology, MRV, and national communications.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to adopt a clear and ambitious action plan and work programme that incorporates REDD+ implementation as a key component.
India asked the EU to examine the paper produced by the G-77 at INC-10 on communication of information by non- Annex I Parties.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by a number of parties, and opposed by the ARAB GROUP, introduced a new paragraph urging the update to the synthesis report to take into account 1.5 c2 b0C scenarios.
The Russian Federation, supported by Germany, lamented the increase in the IPCC workload that would be required for regional reports.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and others noted the need to strengthen and intensify the means of implementation for adaptation.
In a paragraph on elaboration of policies and measures the US, supported by AUSTRALIA, objected to the inclusion of “a menu approach.” FRANCE qualified a reference to harmonized policies and measures by prefacing the reference with “and/or”.
The G-77/CHINA highlighted the AWG-KP’s mandate and supported focusing on this so-called Chair’s “document 3.” CANADA, TUVALU and several Annex I parties supported also discussing the Chair’s other note, “document 4” , which covers issues listed in paragraph 49 of the AWG-KP 6 conclusions.
Austria, supported by Belgium and Togo, stressed regional and gender balance in the selection of scholarship recipients.
Cuba, Botswana, Japan and Argentina said more training is needed, and Romania emphasized the importance of infrastructure.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, asked for additional time to consider the text.
JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, the US, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and CANADA opposed creating binary divisions on commitments, based on annexes or the distinction between developed and developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA advocated retaining bracketed text regarding reporting on Article 2.3 , while SAMOA supported retaining text on reporting on national arrangements to ensure that LULUCF activities contribute to conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
He also stressed the need for better leadership from developed countries, and criticized the performance of the US and Germany.
Chair Estrada, opposed by CANADA, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN, said submissions on this issue made by Saudi Arabia and Iran could be compiled in a miscellaneous document for consideration by COP-8.
The UK and AUSTRALIA said that the identification of mandatory requirements under Articles 5, 7 and 8 should be left to the groups dealing with the mechanisms and Articles 5, 7 and 8.
The G-77/CHINA and US opposed establishing a process for considering the TAR in COP and Subsidiary Body agenda items.
 The PHILIPPINES, supported by INDONESIA and BRAZIL, said the SAR should be used as a comprehensive whole and not selectively.
The UK, Luxembourg, the US, and Switzerland called for specific ToR that estimate the resource implications of the task group’s activities.
Parties then engaged in a conceptual discussion to provide additional input for the Co-Chairs, as proposed by Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, AOSIS and AUSTRALIA, urged also including the review of the AFB in the TORs.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, identified the need for an additional negotiating session before Doha to allow more time for the AWG-LCA to reach clear agreements, underlining the need for specific results.
Zimbabwe, on behalf of the G-77/ China, opposed the conclusions, stressing that they failed to make clear reference to COP-7 decision 5/CP.7 on adverse effects.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, IRAN and OMAN, expressed surprise at the GEF’s decision to stop financial support for national communications for some non-Annex I countries, particularly the oil producing ones, stressing the need to resolve the issue at this session.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the need for the AWG-KP to fulfill its mandate in Qatar by adopting amendments concerning the second commitment period of the Protocol.
Several delegates supported the preparation of graphics for the Synthesis Report and the Working Group reports, but SWITZERLAND and BELGIUM questioned the estimated cost.
The EU noted the table does not include a just transition to low GHG economies, and, with INDIA, gender equality.
The EU said Convention Article 2  is not sufficient, and AOSIS stated that the task is to operationalize the Article in light of scientific advances.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized that guidelines for MRV can be found under the UNFCCC and the Protocol, and that MRV should build on national communications.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the principle of least-cost emission reductions in the Convention.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, asked for keeping the new sub-section on LULUCF in the text.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, supported a role for the COP/MOP in submitting questions
When brought back to plenary on Saturday, WG III Co-Chair Skea presented the contact group wording for both paragraphs, without reference to NDCs but with reference to the Paris Agreement, with Saudi Arabia and Egypt requesting to record their objections in the meeting report.
A workshop was also proposed by many, including the US, and opposed by INDIA, who characterized workshops and submissions as premature.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, identified further areas, including additionality of finance and clarifying developing countries’ needs.
 It was later agreed by the Plenary that the SBSTA bureau would consist of Hungary as Chair, Mauritius as Vice Chair and Uzbekistan as Rapporteur.
Following informal consultations, Egypt proposed qualifying financial assistance to developing country CLAs and LAs for those “who require it.” The Netherlands said it could accept this proposal, and the US compromise language was agreed with this amendment.
SLOVENIA, supported by GERMANY, proposed a reference to Article 2 of the UNFCCC .
CANADA, with the US, noted that the review of additionality for JI projects would be under Article 8 .
Belgium, for the EU, welcomed the Chair’s note, but underscored that elements on mitigation and MRV are missing.
The G-77/China denounced the “heinous” abuse of Saudi Arabia’s nameplate and proposed suspending these organizations from future UNFCCC meetings.
CAMBODIA expressed concern with incremental cost requirements as a barrier to adaptation for LDCs.
Japan expressed opposition to Saudi Arabia’s proposal to amend the Protocol to entail legally binding consequences for non-compliance, stressing uncertainties related to ratification and entry into force of amendments.
WGIII agreed to the US proposal, to note that CO2 represented 77% of total anthropogenic emissions in 2004 and to South Africa’s wording on concentration increases since pre-industrial times.
Regarding draft conclusions on assessing the status of implementation of Article 4.9 , TANZANIA, for the LDCs, objected to reference that the SBI expressed satisfaction at the progress achieved so far in implementing the LDC work programme.
Supported by NEW ZEALAND, the US said the text should specify that the compliance system is supplementary to all compliance aspects under the Protocol.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, the US and CANADA said there is no need to emphasize specific aspects of decision 5/CP.7.
On developing definitions and modalities for including afforestation and reforestation under the CDM, JAPAN and COLOMBIA noted insufficient focus on the terms of reference for their development.
The EU, opposed by AUSTRALIA, stressed the link between adoption and use of the mechanisms.
Switzerland, Canada and the EU agreed that the global goal should be qualitative, with Switzerland, New Zealand and Japan stressing it should focus on promoting resilience by integrating adaptation into national policies.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, urged an expedited procedure for the approval of LDC national adaptation programmes of action.
NIGERIA, GHANA and the MALDIVES highlighted their participation in the study on investment and financial flow to address climate change, and called for a follow-up.
The Philippines, for the Group of 77 and China , supported guidance on issues, such as what the Fund will do and how to consider funding for projects.
Bolivia preferred using agreed terminology, including e2 80 9cfood production, e2 80 9d and Saudi Arabia called for referring to water production as well.
Supporting the inclusion of the reference, the EU, with AUSTRALIA, noted that decision 17/CP.8  refers to the "frequency of" submissions.
On capacity building in EITs, delegates considered submissions from the Russian Federation and Poland.
GRENADA, the EU, BARBADOS and others opposed this proposal.
Belize, for AOSIS, supported by Costa Rica, Malawi and the Philippines, proposed amendments, including, inter alia, encouraging UN specialized funds and agencies to support the development of modalities with wide participation by, and through technical meetings among, experts; and ensuring that the modalities are developed in time to be integrated into the transparency framework.
The BAHAMAS, with the GAMBIA, underlined urgency of emission reductions.
New Zealand, the EU and Australia expressed concerns on the provisional application of amendments.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION called for a constructive dialogue and BELARUS said Annex B should not be a 93closed club, 94 stressing his country 92s efforts to undertake emission reduction commitments.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, presented decision text establishing a cooperative mechanism to minimize the adverse impacts of response measures.
KENYA reported on the Cartagena Dialogue on Progressive Action on Climate Change, which took place in Nairobi, Kenya, in April 2012, and addressed, inter alia, the Durban Platform, second commitment period under the Protocol and a new legally-binding instrument.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for efforts on: a global goal on greenhouse gas reductions and a timeframe for global peaking of emissions; means of implementation for developing countries, with finance and technology transfer through the institutions created in Cancun; and a system of clear rules and methodologies to promote environmental integrity.
Australia, for several UMBRELLA GROUP members, noted convergence on many issues and highlighted key elements that require agreement, including an eight-year second commitment period and expanded participation in market mechanisms.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that the COP invite the IPCC to prepare guidelines for baselines.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed ensuring that parties’ capacities improve over time.
On the EU proposal to insert two paragraphs on monitoring of emissions of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 and 17 under national systems, delegates agreed to a compromise proposal by CANADA for a new paragraph under Characteristics that would refer to relevant IPCC guidelines and COP or COP/MOP decisions.
Algeria, on behalf of the African Group, said in light of the Convention\'s principles of common but differentiated responsibilities, the polluter pays and the right to development, African countries are not willing to accept any new commitments.
Panama, for the Latin American and Caribbean Group, said the AWG-LCA’s mandate should be extended to enable it to conclude its work, and that a programme of work for achieving a legally-binding agreement should be adopted.
c2 a0 Chile, for AILAC, identified three areas in Section C  for merging and/or shortening.
The EU, NORWAY and the US supported the Secretariat\'s proposed paper on comparison of activity data, but sought clarification on several technical and procedural issues.
Kenya, for the Africa Group, noted an inadequate commitment on capacity building, while Bangladesh, on behalf of the LDCs, highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC, Adaptation and Special Climate Change Funds.
After agreeing to revisions proposed by the G-77/CHINA and the US, parties agreed to forward the text for adoption by the SBI plenary.
On the modalities of operation, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA, questioned whether Parties could transfer PAAs that remained unused because of factors other than P&amp;Ms, such as economic recession.
New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland, and Zimbabwe objected, asking for more details on this proposal.
BANGLADESH said means of implementation are key for the “Paris Protocol.” NAURU highlighted, inter alia, identification of sources, and scaling up provision of, climate finance.
The final text includes reference to biodiversity, as supported by the EU, SWITZERLAND, THAILAND and NORWAY, and to sustainable forest management.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, suggested addressing enabling environments.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for capacity building for a range of issues, including NAMAs, MRV and REDD+.
Argentina introduced an expression of gratitude to the Government of Italy and the people of the city of Milan, which the COP adopted .
CHINA supported strengthening implementation of the Convention and Protocol, called on industrialized countries to meet their commitments, and outlined significant action in China.
JAPAN, the US and others questioned the proposed three categories of outcomes or consequences.
BOLIVIA, supported by NICARAGUA, called for also analyzing the 1°C target.
 The LDCs, AOSIS, Belize, for CARICOM, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, the Marshall Islands and the US called for a five-year cycle.
The US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, identified the need to streamline discussions on response measures.
South Africa, for the African Group, stressed economic and social impacts of trade and trade-related measures adopted by developed countries.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND favored a fourth national communication deadline of 2005 and a strengthened reporting process leading to the commitment period 2008-2012.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY proposed integrating biennial reports and IAR into existing reporting to avoid duplication.
INDIA highlighted a paper by the G-77/CHINA which sets out concerns on the Annex.
The EU emphasized the importance of accounting guidance, and JAPAN called for a fast start of technical discussions on accounting.
On paragraph 4, Brazil, for Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Iran, for the LMDCs, the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, and Indonesia supported annexing the informal notes to the conclusions.
Responding to a question from Iran about the drop in energy intensity in Mexico in the late 1990s, Mart ednez said this was because of a devaluation of the Peso in 1995.
The US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and AILAC supported a facilitative compliance mechanism, applicable to all.
Bolivia, supported by Saudi Arabia, requested replacing the sentence with text stating that limiting the effects of climate change is necessary to achieve sustainable development and equity, including poverty eradication.
94 On future sessions, the EU objected to text proposed by the US recommending that meetings be held  93during normal United Nations Headquarters working hours 94 .
Colombia, speaking for Chile, Costa Rica and Peru, with Bolivia, Uruguay and Togo, called for the provision of funds to facilitate the operationalization of the GCF.
He suggested deleting reference to loss and damage, and adding, after references to the elements, “reference to any associated institutional arrangement.” The Russian Federation and Switzerland also opposed reference to loss and damage.
The Republic of Korea, also for the EIG, said that: biennial reporting is relevant for the transparency framework; national designated entities should actively participate in the transparency framework; and discussions on Agreement Article 9.5 should be substantive rather than political.
The EU and New Zealand said Colombia’s proposal to analyze rules scenarios and corresponding targets and ambitions might be a useful way to proceed.
 The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported providing guidance to the GCF on issues such as what the Fund will do, and how to consider funding for projects.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and CHINA, stated that the G-77 was still discussing this issue.
Revealed were a new proposal from Germany on specific emissions reductions targets, Japan’s recommendation to incorporate joint implementation officially in future commitments, and even unabashed insistence from Canada and the US that all Parties should eventually take on new commitments.
On an alternative paragraph inviting the Secretariat to enhance existing practices for the facilitation of non-party stakeholder participation, parties, including ECUADOR, the RUSSIA FEDERATION and the US, expressed diverging views.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and others, said its proposal should serve as the basis for the group 92s discussions.
Germany, with Ireland, Norway, and the US, urged coherence across all chapters and clear communication of complex scientific concepts from the report’s outset.
In the contact group on Thursday, 4 December, Co-Chair Rosland reported progress on the common reporting format and announced that the EU, with the help of Canada, would present reporting tables on sectoral background data for LULUCF based on IPCC GPG.
The US, the EU and others expressed satisfaction with the work of the facilitators, and Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed the need to switch to a full negotiating mode and have a workable negotiating text in Bangkok.
The EU, SAMOA and AUSTRALIA suggested that differences in opinion could be bridged by moving the debate away from conceptual approaches and toward a discussion of their consequences.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed that Annex I parties report on their provision of MOI.
AOSIS and the US expressed concern.
ARGENTINA, for a group of developing countries, and CHINA said measures taken on climate change under the IMO and ICAO should respect the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular CBDR.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others supported an amendment on privileges and immunities, and TUVALU proposed an amendment related to extending the share of proceeds.
The EU, supported by Norway and Colombia, proposed requesting IPCC to prepare an updated report by mid-2009 with a view to informing COP 15.
Austria, supported by Norway, expressed interest in preparing a technical paper that pulls AR5 material together on this topic.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for continuing the Protocol’s key elements, including quantified and legally-binding objectives, the flexibility mechanisms and a transparent monitoring system.
On INDCs, the US, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS and opposed by the LDCs, proposed a new paragraph inviting parties to communicate their INDCs well in advance of COP 21, and those willing to do so by the first quarter of 2015.
India agreed to limit the provision to existing institutions, but Sri Lanka and Kuwait commented that they have no existing institutions.
Brazil, with Colombia, South Africa, China and Morocco, said decisions on baselines should be taken by a politically appointed body, such as the Executive Board .
 On the level and timing of QELROs, SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the MALDIVES and MAURITIUS referred to the AOSIS draft protocol, which requires Annex I Parties to reduce 1990 C02 emission levels by at least 20 percent by the year 2005.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that any consideration of further implementation of Convention Article 12.5 should take into account common but differentiated responsibilities and that national communications requirements should not be more onerous for non-Annex I parties than for Annex I parties.
BRAZIL, INDIA, VENEZUELA and CHINA emphasized that IAR and ICA are two separate processes.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized the importance of considering the headquarters agreement and budgetary austerity.
On broader participation, the Gambia, for the LDCs, said this can only be effective if developed countries demonstrate leadership.
With other small amendments suggested by Germany and Saudi Arabia, the figure was agreed.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said that financing must meet recipient requirements and should be derived from a combination of public and private sources, with the public sector being the main source.
The outputs of the Task Force are: the maintenance of the IPCC Data Distribution Centre managed by the Climatic Research Unit in the UK, and the Deutsches Klimarechenzentrum in Germany; guidance material on the use of scenario data for impact and adaptation assessments; and the publication of inventories.
Brazil queried Paraguay on its preference for starting with a subnational approach, with Paraguay pointing to the need for more time and practice in monitoring and demonstrative activities and for creating capacity among institutions.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, requested restructuring the document, with sections in the following order: preamble; accelerated implementation process; TEP; and review.
On sources of information, AUSTRALIA and the US said that due process required the defending party to be able to present necessary information and rebut evidence against it.
Germany, UK and Norway underscored the importance of quantification.
The G-77/CHINA preferred focusing on the period after COP-7, while CANADA and others noted that capacity building was a long-term process that did not begin at COP-7.
On the paragraph on establishing a quota, CANADA, supported by JAPAN, opposed identifying a specific percentage of CERs to come from countries with fewer than ten CDM projects, and JAPAN preferred language “encouraging parties” rather than “deciding” to use CERs coming from these countries.
The US, supported by AUSTRIA, suggested that the IPCC Bureau should not have any formal decision making authority in approving observer organizations.
In a joint statement issued at the Summit of the Americas in Santiago, the presidents of the US and Chile, inter alia: stressed that the Protocol\'s market mechanisms would mobilize private sector resources; recognized the potential of the Clean Development Mechanism; and noted that developing countries should participate meaningfully in efforts to address climate change by, for example, taking on emissions targets.
Norway, with Switzerland, suggested examining whether exemption from the share of proceeds could be further enhanced.
Emphasizing that the “issue of vulnerability is not a matter for negotiation,” Uganda, for the LDCs, lamented that some elements important to the LDCs were missing from the text.
Parties considered compromise proposals made by Oman and Brazil.
HUNGARY and the EU proposed reference to relevant international and intergovernmental organizations.
During discussions, INDIA, VENEZUELA and EGYPT emphasized that Decision 1/CP.16 mandates the AWG-LCA to take all actions under the Cancun Agreements, unless otherwise specified.
Scientists from the US and the UK announced that 1997 was the warmest year on record and that nine of the last eleven years were among the warmest periods ever recorded.
The EU called for: substantive conclusions on how the IPCC can support the global stocktake; a clear understanding on how the technology framework can help address fragmentation around existing processes aimed at facilitating technology transfer; and, with the Democratic Republic of the Congo for LDCs, deliverables for the five-year work plan.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, supported Tuvalu’s concerns about a conflict of interest if the trustee were able to sell CERs as well as buy them.
BRAZIL, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND and the EU suggested that the group first address ways to move forward before deciding on substance of discussion.
The US appreciated Yemen’s proposal, and suggested language “working in an inclusive and transparent manner in accordance with procedures of the UN.” Saudi Arabia, proposed two options: that “the AWG-LCA agreed to continue in strict adherence to inclusiveness” or deleting the paragraph.
An in-session workshop on ways to enhance the engagement of observers and their means of participation was supported by Mexico and many others, but opposed by Saudi Arabia.
Responding to SOUTH AFRICA and FIJI on the level of ambition and consistency of the target with IPCC AR5 conclusions on limiting global warming to 2 c2 b0C, she stressed that New Zealand e2 80 99s goal is in accordance with national circumstances.
  On Thursday, Saudi Arabia and Singapore disagreed with the reference to carbon budgets in the proposed draft.
In-depth reviews are available from Japan, Spain and Norway.
 NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said COP-6 discussions should be based on equity and justice.
The LDCs, AOSIS, Indonesia, and China supported an additional session.
Canada, opposed by the G-77/China and EU, suggested withdrawing the appendix on elaborating guidelines on national systems relating to AA units and/or PAAs.
On the Secretariat e2 80 99s proposal to combine, in paragraph 215 on signature, ratification approval and accession, sub-paragraphs 3 and 4 on actions by regional economic integration organizations and on groups of parties, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the EU said the proposal mixes concepts and does not reduce the length of the text.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, with BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA, emphasized capturing CBDR.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that this item represented the G-77\'s contribution to the BM process.
CHINA, INDONESIA and IRAN highlighted the need to convene intersessional meetings to strengthen intergovernmental work.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the session should improve parties’ understanding of the issues mandated to the APA, and proposed technical submissions and a Co-Chairs’ reflection note after this session.
The US highlighted divergence regarding financing, with Japan underscoring opposing views as to whether a new institution should be established.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by ALGERIA, stressed the need to address the impacts of response measures in the context of adaptation, highlighting that in Copenhagen, political leaders, including those from AOSIS and the LDCs, agreed to such an approach.
Senegal and Central African Republic called for a Climate Change Day.
During the meeting, Canada and Indonesia facilitated work to consolidate text on means of implementation and financing for full implementation.
Marshall Islands, with Comoros, noted the need for experts within their regions to disseminate IPCC findings, and suggested the possibility to train experts for outreach purposes.
IRAN requested SAUDI ARABIA and the countries on whose behalf it spoke to join the consensus.
Opposing US climate policy, CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK called for the entry into force of the Protocol.
Nauru, for AOSIS, questioned whether adaptation can provide a sufficient solution to climate change impacts in SIDS, and whether the GCF can afford to pay for such measures, and called for prioritizing mitigation under the ADP.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP urged the conclusion of the AWG-LCA to allow implementation to begin and looked forward to progress toward an agreement applicable to all parties by 2020, while increasing ambition before 2020.
During discussions in the facilitated group on Friday, 5 June, parties: considered a number of streamlining proposals presented by the LMDCs; expressed views on the placement of issues in the agreement versus decisions; discussed differentiation; and heard proposals from the EU, the LMDCs and AILAC on how to cluster the text for conceptual and structural clarity.
Panama and Belize, with Senegal for the African Group, stressed the need to respect the diversity among NDCs.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, identified the need for guidance to the Global Environment Facility  from COP 18 on national adaptation plan formulation in LDCs.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, stated that “all international obligations” must be within the scope of the committee.
NORWAY opposed this, stating that national adaptation plans should only apply to the LDCs, as mandated.
The G-77/China proposed text on the outcomes of the workshops on insurance and risk assessment and on related actions, which the EU and US opposed, citing the unavailability of the written reports for consideration at SBI-18.
The EU reiterated that there was no need for additional spin-off groups and, with the US, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and JAPAN, sought clarification on whether the AWG-LCA Chair proposed establishing an informal meeting of the contact group.
Susan Solomon , Working Group I Co-Chair, supported by the US and Canada, said that outreach processes need to be clearly separated from the substantive products to ensure the integrity of the IPCC.
CHINA, supported by KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that the purpose of the documents was to facilitate discussion and therefore they should not be used as the basis for negotiation over text.
Switzerland and Norway stressed the importance of referring to the magnitude and rate of climate change, and Field proposed to do so in a subsequent sentence on rising magnitudes of warming and other changes in the climate system, which was approved with the addition of reference to rates of warming.
CANADA expressed reservations on the issue and opposed the draft decision tabled by Iceland at COP-4 in its current form.
WGII Co-Chair Hans-Otto P c3 b6rtner noted that budget negotiations are nearly finalized for their TSU, saying it will be hosted by the Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research, in Potsdam, Germany, with operations also taking place in South Africa.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with SUDAN, BOLIVIA and EGYPT, said discussions should focus only on issues within the mandate of the AWG-KP, in particular the amendment of Protocol Article 3.9  and consequential amendments.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified the inclusion of key elements of the Bali Action Plan as a precondition for discussions.
The US queried the budgetary implications of discontinuing the Expert Advisory Group and, supported by Belgium, suggested adding to the decision that Committee members could attend meetings virtually rather than in person to ease efforts to achieve quorum.
WGI Vice-Chair Carolina Vera , supported by Canada, Germany, WGII Co-Chair Hans-Otto P c3 b6rtner , WGIII Co-Chair Jim Skea , and WGI Co-Chair Val c3 a9rie Masson-Delmotte, suggested shifting Scholarship Fund resources to finance the involvement of post-doctorate students in drafting IPCC reports as chapter scientists.
However, the EU and US questioned the added value of such a group, and the EU suggested further consideration at SBSTA 28.
Maldives, for LDCs, urged deep emissions cuts by Annex I parties by 2020.
China requested that the Secretariat develop a list of technology transferable free of charge, but the EU, the UK, the US, Russia, Germany and Australia objected, stating that they did not disagree with the idea but with the timing.
Saudi Arabia and Switzerland pointed to the difficulty of capturing all the developments since the TAR in a paragraph.
The US, Australia and the EU expressed concern about the placement of sub-paragraph , which prohibits new forms of conditionality, in this paragraph.
On the provisional agenda , the G-77/China urged excluding Canada 92s proposal for a decision on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 7.4  in relation to cleaner energy exports.
COLOMBIA, with PERU, proposed categorizing projects as small, medium or large scale.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, Sweden, for the European Union , Algeria, for the African Group, Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, Japan, the US and the Vice-Chair of the Expert Group on Technology Transfer highlighted his important role in the UNFCCC process and expressed their condolences.
Following requests by New Zealand, Australia, the US and the EU, informal consultations were held on the agenda of the upcoming workshop on synergies.
SWITZERLAND and the US expressed their preference for suspending rather than closing the APA session.
Responding to a question from Iran on the extent to which Uruguay 92s national communication reflected national development plans, Santos explained that its communication included some national plans, such as the introduction of bio-diesel, but would benefit from additional links.
SAMOA, on behalf of Alliance of Small Island States , called for a coordination mechanism for discussing and implementing P&amp;Ms. IRAN argued that P&amp;Ms should include information and technology exchange.
FRANCE reported on consultations held with all regional groups on the special circumstances facing Turkey, saying that many expressed a preference for bilateral consultations rather than a COP decision.
On institutions, Maldives, for AOSIS, called for recognizing the Adaptation Committee as the lead institution, and, with Chile, for AILAC, utilizing existing communication channels.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by TOGO, said that: COP-4\'s second review must respect the FCCC mandate and not be distracted by extraneous consideration of new commitments for non-Annex I Parties; COP-4 should convene the next review at the same time as the review at COP/MOP-2, in accordance with Article 9.2 of the Protocol; and subsequent reviews should take place in the year preceding the termination of successive Protocol commitment periods.
 The PHILIPPINES submitted a separate amendment consisting of three new paragraphs, which she said were supported by most, but not all, of the members of the G-77 and China.
ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: On GHG inventory data for Annex I communications, the US, with POLAND, stressed that timeliness and completeness of submissions were critical in providing a basis for COP action.
On provision for the second review of the adequacy of Annex I Party commitments the PHILIPPINES, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by GAMBIA, INDIA, BURKINA FASO, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, COLOMBIA, VENEZUELA, BRAZIL, IRAN and KUWAIT said the Kyoto Protocol was the first step in the review process.
Germany, supported by Norway and Luxembourg, emphasized the importance of ensuring the SR15 SPM, at a minimum, and, optimally, the full SR15 report be made available in multiple languages ahead of UNFCCC COP 24 in 2018.
Expressing deep concern over the omission of important elements and lack of progress on response measures and finance issues under the SBI and SBSTA, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said he would not accept a “skewed, incomplete package” as the basis for negotiations in the second week.
The EU, Japan, Australia and the US supported use of global warming potentials .
The EU, JAPAN and others replied that the new gases do not have significant mitigation potential as they have not yet been commercialized, but that their inclusion would prevent them from becoming a problem.
MALAYSIA emphasized the vulnerability of developing countries and those in poverty and, with the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported consideration of adaptation measures.
The two key bodies under the Bali Roadmap are the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP, which held four negotiation sessions in 2008: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
Youth representatives from Kenya and the UK then reported on the previous week 92s international Youth Conference attended by 118 young people from 61 countries, and urged all delegates to read and address the Youth Declaration.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , called for progress on: the MRV package, ICA technical expert teams; NAMA registry prototype; work programme on loss and damage; candidates to host the Climate Technology Centre ; Adaptation Fund; and review of the design of the commitment period reserve.
BRAZIL urged considering existing technologies and undertaking technological research in developing countries, and, with CANADA, called for analyzing experiences in other international fora.
Saying that the decisions taken in Lima had set the stage for negotiations in 2015, Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group: highlighted decisions on guidance to the GCF and on long-term climate finance; noted that more work remained on market mechanisms and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol; and expressed appreciation to the organization of the first session of the multilateral assessment, noting that the Independent Assessment Report and international consultation and analysis are important processes for promoting transparency and enhancing understanding of respective national processes.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, CANADA, SINGAPORE and CHINA argued that work on bunker fuels should be taken up in relevant international organizations, such as the ICAO and the International Maritime Organization.
The authors, with Norway, the UK, Chile, Slovenia, Belgium, Germany, and others, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed using a sentence from the WGI SPM instead, stating that e2 80 9cwarming will continue beyond 2100 in all RCP scenarios except RCP2.6.
While stressing that adaptation and mitigation should receive equal treatment and resources, India called for a shared understanding on “political parity.” Saying “parity” is vague, the US proposed “underscoring the importance of adaptation.”
Nepal, for the Least Developed Countries , called for ADP 2-6 to organize elements of a post-2015 agreement.
The US explained the importance of taking a fundamental decision on the IPCC ef bf bds role in new emissions scenarios and, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted that the IPCC should not go beyond a facilitation role by commissioning or directing scenario development as this could compromise its assessment role.
With LIBYA, QATAR and VENEZUELA, he supported discouraging fossil fuel production in Annex I countries.
Norway and the EU opposed a provision on share of proceeds in Articles 6 and 17 .
GHANA identified IPRs as a problem for developing countries, and, with BANGLADESH, UGANDA, INDONESIA, ARGENTINA and BOLIVIA, stressed that the IPR regime should be modified so that it does not constitute a barrier to technology transfer.
The EU proposed wording on voluntary use of the 2006 Guidelines “ensuring consistency with” the UNFCCC reporting guidelines, while BRAZIL suggested that the two guidelines should be applied in parallel in certain sectors.
Peru, for AILAC, stated the importance of making progress on substantive matters, rather than on procedural matters.
GCOS cited an outcome from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report on the need to identify an authoritative set of information needs for adaptation policies and, supported by Pakistan and Canada, suggested the group build on this in its recommendation.
South Africa, for the African Group, stressed that the COP Presidency had pledged to undertake consultations with all parties on Article 9.5 and requested that plenary adjourn until consultations were complete.
The US and AUSTRALIA suggested that methodological problems be identified during the inventory review stage.
France, on behalf of the EU, asked Dr. Bolin whether substantial reductions in emissions would be necessary and if Annex I countries" actions would be insufficient to prevent greenhouse warming.
Lebanon, Kuwait, Oman, Jordan and others stressed that the incident was particularly offensive as Saudi Arabia’s flag contains religious symbols.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said the distinction could be made later.
 Palau, for AOSIS, cited lack of funding for adaptation as a major failure of the Convention and proposed a new fund based on the ef bf bdpolluter pays principle ef bf bd to link emissions to Annex I countries funding commitments.
On mitigation, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, the US and others said that the INDCs imply self-differentiation.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo called for references to principles and provisions of the Convention.
Switzerland, for the EIG, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, opposed by Iran, for the LMDCs, supported holding a pre-sessional roundtable.
China, India, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Bangladesh and others emphasized that a shared vision should be comprehensive and aim at the implementation of the Convention, covering all building blocks of the BAP and the Convention’s principles.
On post-commitment review, the US and the EU expressed concern about the 38-month timeline identified by the Secretariat for review under the Protocol.
In these conclusions, SBSTA, inter alia: accepts the offer of Denmark in collaboration with France to host a workshop to assess best practices in Policies and measures; and decides to consider the report of the workshop at SBSTA-12, and report the results to COP-6.
The EU and SWITZERLAND suggested a standing committee, which would report to the COP.
Significant disagreements started early on, with Ghana, for the G-77/China, tabling an elaborate text proposing, inter alia: establishing a new body under the Convention, the Technology Development and Transfer Board , establishing a Multilateral Technology Acquisition Fund  to buy intellectual property rights; and developing indicators to monitor implementation of the technology transfer framework.
BRAZIL, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, then introduced a text for a new Part III bis that addresses the terminology "initial AA" and replaces it with "amounts that contribute to the compliance of a Party included in Annex I with the quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment under Article 3."
Kenya and Uganda called for a clear definition of climate finance.
The Netherlands and Belgium suggested developing guidance on how to organize the work of regional groups during the elections.
In the SBI plenary on Tuesday, 17 May, Thailand, for the G-77/China, called for recording adaptation communications in the public NDC registry maintained by the Secretariat.
Supporting the inclusion of this reference, the EU, with Australia, noted that decision 17/CP.8  refers to the "frequency of" submissions.
For Chapter 10 on Key economic sectors and services, the UK highlighted systemic risks and insurance, and South Africa, with Thailand, suggested adding agriculture.
INDONESIA, with HAITI, urged viewing the global stocktake as an opportunity to help increase adaptation ambition.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, called this package a “milestone” for the implementation of a new post-2020 climate regime.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, identified the need for an additional negotiating session before Doha to allow more time for the AWG-LCA to reach clear agreements, underlining the need for specific results.
 c2 a0Germany, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg supported elevating language from a subsequent paragraph on “the possibility of triggering multi-meter sea level rise” to the headline statement.
BELARUS and SINGAPORE noted concerns with avoiding double emissions accounting, tracking information and potential implications for other sectors.
On Monday, 1 December, COP 19/CMP 9 President Marcin Korolec welcomed delegates to the joint COP/MOP opening ceremony highlighting several significant outcomes of COP 19 and lauding early engagement by Peru and France, which is allowing “the trio to make the road to Paris a smooth highway.”
NORWAY, with NEW ZEALAND, called for revisiting previous TEM topics and adding sessions on carbon pricing and removal of fossil fuel subsidies.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted gaps in the implementation of obligations under the Convention and also called for enhancement of support.
ALBA called for an urgent decision on financial resources noting that the financial mechanism cannot be an “empty shell.” COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS expressed concern over the lack of funding for the implementation of REDD+ activities, and failure to provide new and additional fast-start financial support.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Estonia, and the US opposed singling out a specific fossil fuel.
Italy, supported by France, Madagascar, Austria, Morocco and others, and opposed by the US, suggested the creation of a Task Group to address the issue in time for the AR5 scoping meeting in July.
 Many delegations, including the EU, the US, CANADA, ARGENTINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, BANGLADESH, NORWAY, FIJI, URUGUAY, MAURITIUS, JAPAN, BENIN, SWITZERLAND, MYANMAR, BULGARIA, SAMOA, MICRONESIA, the MALDIVES, NIUE, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and COSTA RICA, endorsed the SAR as the most comprehensive assessment of scientific information on climate change available and viewed it as a basis for urgent action.
The G-77/China identified some areas where it might show some flexibility, while the US reiterated its preference for zero nominal growth, but also expressed willingness to compromise.
Kenya, for the African Group, identified the inclusion of key elements of the Bali Action Plan as a precondition for discussions.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, inter alia: said the ICA should be facilitative and lead to the identification of capacity-building needs of developing countries for transparency; called for support from developed countries for the LEG; and emphasized the need to identify actions to address the needs of developing countries arising from negative impacts of response measures.
IRAN, with GERMANY, BELGIUM and AUSTRALIA, called for in-depth consideration of the issue.
Iran for the LMDCs, Chile for AILAC, and Mali for the African Group stressed the link between countries’ capacities and their ability to implement their commitments.
 India, supported by Australia, Kenya and Saudi Arabia, proposed adding preambular text indicating that the SYR SPM is a not a stand-alone document but a compilation of three working group SPMs, and is supported by these underlying documents.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, remarked that the draft did not adequately reflect AOSIS’ desire for Article 6 implementation to contribute to overall global mitigation.
 During the discussion of the Co-Chair"s draft decision, Brazil, Uganda, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia and Iran supported the G-77 amendments, which clarified that the GEF shall continue to be the interim entity entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism.
An expert group meeting on socioeconomic information was held from 10-12 March 2008, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.
It was attended by 29 parties from the Alliance of Small Island States, Latin America, Europe, Oceania, South East Asia and Africa.
Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored achieving the objectives of the BAP and fulfilling legal obligations, without excuses or conditionalities.
The EU, G-77/China and Switzerland emphasized the need to design guidelines according to specific country needs.
Differences in opinion arose over whether the consideration should be referred to SBSTA to first address scientific and technical aspects, as proposed by the EU and others, or whether it should be referred to both SBSTA and SBI to address both technical and policy aspects, as preferred by the G-77/China, the Alliance of Small Island States  and others.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency AT the June session, with the compilation of a list of successful and innovative policies, followed by submissions and a technical paper.
The US agreed with the Netherlands that markets can benefit from coordination of standards, but harmonization can be over-emphasized.
 The Republic of Korea, on behalf of the G-77 and China, suggested as a compromise that Article 4.1 be included in the preamble, that the word "terms" be retained in paragraph 1 rather than the "conditions" under which such transfer could take place, and that the bracketed phrase "and as appropriate" be deleted from paragraph 3.
Alberto Pizango, Co-Chair of the Indigenous Caucus for Latin America, called for climate action through: land titles; respect for indigenous peoples e2 80 99 right to self-determination; direct access to climate funds; adapting REDD+ to indigenous peoples e2 80 99 rights; and control of drivers of deforestation.
The EU, with CANADA, stressed that the Protocol calls for Annex I countries to “strive” to minimize impacts, that the objective was to figure out how best to “strive” through the collection and processing of information, and that such information collection would require efforts by both developed and developing countries.
SOUTH AFRICA and JAPAN underscored comparability, and CHINA noted that it includes, inter alia, comparable efforts and legally binding commitments.
In the context of private sector funding, India and China drew attention to double counting arising from emission reductions achieved through offset mechanisms.
The US described the proposed conflict of interest policy as a “conceptual misapplication.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to include social and economic interests in the process.
BENIN stressed the need to improve the geographical distribution of CDM projects, while NEW ZEALAND warned of difficulties in dictating geographical and sectoral distribution of projects.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at a lack of inclusivity, transparency, and time to participate in negotiations on matters relating to LDCs, and regretted that text in the draft conclusions was not discussed during the negotiations.
Cuba, on behalf of several countries, expressed concern with respect to unilateral measures in relation to aviation emissions, such as under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
ALGERIA, CHINA, IRAN and INDIA stressed public sources of finance, with CHINA, IRAN, ECUADOR, PALAU and TANZANIA saying that private sector finance should be complementary.
 Parties agreed that, in line with previous practice, this item will be kept open and COP 21 Vice-President Sylla will report to the closing plenary on proposals by Japan , Tuvalu , the US , Australia , Costa Rica  and Grenada .
Colombia highlighted that the proposal by the G-77/China resulted from “a very difficult compromise within the G-77/China.” She underlined her country’s association with the Accord while urging parties to be practical as “we need to leave Bonn with a mandate.” Also noting its association with the Accord, Guatemala said the proposal by G-77/China represents an “elegant way” to move forward because parties can introduce the Accord through submissions without a lengthy debate about its legal status.
 The US and CANADA noted that while differentiation is important, other concepts are as well.
France, Italy and Turkey underscored that the Mediterranean should be considered as a separate region.
On objectives and scope of capacity building, CANADA and the US questioned reference to supporting new institutions.
Brazil agreed that the registry should bring actions and resources together, and the Republic of Korea said it should be voluntary.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of progress under the AWG-LCA and said that parties should strive to have a set of draft decisions by the end of the week.
On designated operational entities, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, opposed by NORWAY, introduced a reference to conflict of interest.
Spain, for the European Union , said the Chair’s text can facilitate negotiations, but noted room for improvement regarding more ambitious emission reductions.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by JAPAN, preferred deleting reference to languages other than UN languages.
 NORWAY, ICELAND and AUSTRALIA suggested establishing indicators as a basis for differentiation.
BRAZIL suggested a TEM bringing together expertise from “the financial and investment worlds.” INDIA called specific attention to the cost of technology, finance available, and countries’ capacity to absorb them.
Discussions centered on: additional criteria for the admittance of organizations, as suggested by the Netherlands, the need for any admission policy to be consistent with the principles of the IPCC, as noted by China, and the role of observer organizations in facilitating transparency and confidence in organizations, as noted by Hungary, the US and others.
NIGERIA and SRI LANKA proposed assigning percentages of CERs to specific regions or parties.
 The consultations began Tuesday evening with approximately 30 delegates working from the G-77 draft decision and the EU and US papers from INC-11.
The G-77, supported by China, Colombia and Algeria, stated that the idea is to enable developing countries, not to provide technology alone.
MEXICO, the US and BRAZIL supported including existing institutions under the new agreement to facilitate its implementation.
Canada, the EU and Japan expressed the view that this issue did not require a separate process, as it was considered under other relevant agenda items.
 On nuclear power, the US, opposed by Germany, proposed to remove reference to weapons proliferation risks associated with nuclear power.
BANGLADESH proposed deep cuts, an early peaking year for global emissions and, with GHANA and EGYPT, an adaptation protocol.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, stressed that negotiations under the ADP must ensure full and effective implementation of the Convention.
Argentina, opposed by the EU, stated the previous version of the text was more useful, suggesting both versions could serve as the basis for negotiations at the next ADP meeting.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, underscored the relevance of civil society participation in the UNFCCC process as a way of enhancing transparency.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the LDCs and others, identified key elements for the negotiations, including ensuring understanding of the potential consequences of policies and measures on developing country economies, and a system to minimize and prevent negative impacts on developing countries.
Saint Lucia, the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia requested clarity regarding the report’s role in the global stocktake and said its contribution should be scientific in nature.
South Africa, for the African Group, and Iran, for the LMDCs, supported prioritizing work on issues that were “less mature.”
Maldives, for AOSIS, urged parties to engage substantively and move towards a streamlined text before negotiations in Bangkok.
He also explained that, since the issuance of this document, Honduras, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean , Iran, for the Asia-Pacific States, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, had proposed new agenda items, each on the special needs and special circumstances of developing countries in their respective groups or regions.
An open-ended break-out group chaired by Andreas Fischlin  worked on the data reporting format based on proposals by the EU, Australia and the US.
In the closing plenary, delegates were presented draft SBI conclusions and a draft COP/MOP decision allowing Croatia to add 3.5 Mt of carbon dioxide equivalent to its 1990 level of emissions, but the Russian Federation emphasized that, in its view, consideration of the issue should continue until an acceptable compromise can be found.
Saudi Arabia and the G-77/China stressed the inclusion of developing country scientists, and literature in languages other than English.
 On this issue  Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, cautioned against a fragmented and decentralized approach.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait insisted on a 3/4 majority vote.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed capacity building for developing countries.
Mexico, supported by Italy, Belgium and others, proposed approaching the Green Climate Fund  for funding.
The US, supported by the EU, cautioned against excluding specific fields of expertise and called for the possibility to draw on expertise of other bodies such as the SBSTA and the SBI.
SWITZERLAND noted the bottom-up approach suggested by the G-77/China and advocated tailor-made approaches for each country.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, advocated a single decision on INDCs and the elements of a negotiating text.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, Brazil, Norway and Egypt supported a single base year of 1990.
TUVALU, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the Protocol’s importance now and in the future and elaborated on its two proposals to amend the Protocol.
Supporting the work led by Fiji in developing modalities for the Talanoa Dialogue, Maldives, for AOSIS, said enhancing mitigation ambition should shape all elements of the process.
BRAZIL and TUVALU, for the LDCs, noted that the scope should not be limited to Convention Article 2 .
 NORWAY advocated common emission targets for groups of Parties, such as the OECD, which would be achieved through equitable and appropriate contributions by each of the Parties.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for COP 22 to be an “implementation and action COP.”
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said COP 22 should prioritize: ensuring a comprehensive and rules-based process; crystalizing adaptation action; and elaborating the technology framework.
The PHILIPPINES and CANADA recommended the use of no-regrets policies.
CHINA, with INDIA and others, stressed the importance of deep emission reductions by Annex I parties in the second commitment period for “a strong and robust carbon price.” INDIA warned that the proposed new mechanisms would “flood the market” with cheap credits.
GHANA, for the Africa Group, urged developed Parties to provide financial and technical assistance.
On the length of the second commitment period and level of ambition, parties’ views differed, with AOSIS, the G-77/China, the African Group and LDCs favoring a five-year commitment period.
Thailand, for G-77/CHINA, highlighted SBSTA’s work on agriculture, calling it “the backbone” of socio-economic development in developing countries.
SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA inquired whether the consideration of this issue is under the mandate of the SBI.
NEW ZEALAND and VENEZUELA suggested providing ministers with focused questions.
CLIMATE ACTION NETWORK called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, underscored regional distribution, and proposed exempting small-scale projects in LDCs from the additionality requirement.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a “comprehensive and durable” outcome in Copenhagen and identified the need for coherence between the AWGs.
JORDAN, with CHINA and INDIA, opposed any ex ante review processes.
AUSTRIA, NEW ZEALAND and many others highlighted the need for new emission scenarios prior to AR5, while CHINA said new scenarios should only be considered after the AR4 is completed.
On the way forward, Bangladesh called for establishing a mechanism to address loss and damage by COP 18, while the US supported country-driven risk reduction activities, saying, with Australia and Canada, that a discussion on institutional mechanisms is premature.
Emphasizing that the EU had “shown patience” and readiness to commit to a second commitment period of at least five years, the EU, supported by Chile, Norway and Colombia, called for a protocol or legal instrument under the Convention by 2018.
New Zealand, Norway, Austria, Honduras, Costa Rica, Greece and Tuvalu opposed including nuclear energy in the CDM.
The LDCs, opposed by the US, suggested that bodies created under the Kyoto Protocol, such as the Adaptation Fund and the Clean Development Mechanism , could be carried across to the new agreement by a COP decision.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that parties continue to work on the text for an additional day, concurrent with ministerial meetings.
BOLIVIA, INDIA and others proposed increasing the scope of TEM topics, with BOLIVIA suggesting a focus on technology knowledge systems and practices of indigenous peoples and local communities.
Delegates agreed to a proposal by AUSTRALIA and NORWAY to replace 93anthropogenic sources 94 with 93industry and energy related sources.
The Panel agreed that IPCC-44 will be held in the second half of October, in Geneva, Switzerland, or Vienna, Austria, pending availability of conference facilities.
Venezuela, on behalf of ALBA, stated that markets are not the only solution to achieving ambitious emission reductions and urged parties to undertake real and responsible commitments under the principle of CBDR.
AUSTRALIA highlighted mitigation as another issue of wide interest, while CHINA preferred a focus on adaptation.
South Africa highlighted the long-term global goal as “more than just a number, but also nothing without a number.” The US said the 2°C target, to which the political leaders have committed, should guide the vision.
Egypt, supported by India but opposed by Singapore, reiterated that the focus should be on the impacts of 1.5 c2 b0C, rather than differences between 1.5 c2 b0C and 2 c2 b0C scenarios.
INDIA, supported by BOTSWANA and BHUTAN, pointed to the need to address information gaps.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that the APA must also be flexible and allow each item to move forward at its own pace.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and others, suggested moving toward a draft decision and outlined three pillars: emphasizing the Convention principles; considering adaptation the core; and means of implementation to link agricultural adaptation to technology transfer and finance for capacity building.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, hoped the conclusion that future climate change will be dominated by human influence until GHG concentrations stabilize will provide impetus to action.
The G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Nauru, for AOSIS, the EU, NORWAY, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL and TURKEY called for building on existing institutions and mechanisms, such as the Cancun Adaptation Framework.
Switzerland expressed its regret and congratulated Germany.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, with the EU, stressed that the decision on small-scale afforestation and reforestation projects was part of a balanced package agreed at COP 9.
Saudi Arabia, Norway, Australia, Kuwait, Japan, Egypt and Qatar expressed support for consideration of a draft decision on how to include CCS under the CDM.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested distinguishing between institutions under the Convention and those created by decisions.
URUGUAY and ARGENTINA underscored non-carbon dioxide emissions and lack of mitigation options in the agricultural sector.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, regretted that only 25% of the LDCs’ needs identified in national adaptation programmes of action  have received support.
The G-77/China suggested compiling a paper on different options for addressing modalities for accounting, reporting and review aspects, while the EU, Canada and Japan preferred integrating these issues into the other options papers.
GHANA, supported by JAPAN, said joint partnerships between developed and developing countries are essential to overcome barriers posed by intellectual property rights.
Nauru, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on the work mandated in Durban, including on a science-based Review that is narrow in scope.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for a follow-up agreement to the Protocol in order for industrialized countries to continue and intensify their emission reduction commitments, and called on all Annex I countries to take the lead in achieving the 2°C objective.
Kenya, for the African Group, and the EU called for guidance to promote progression.
COLOMBIA, CHILE and VENEZUELA emphasized the vulnerability of all developing countries.
Warning that she had “seen this movie before and it does not end well,” VENEZUELA lamented the stocktaking had started in spite of an ongoing coordination meeting of G-77/China Heads of Delegation, and that observers had been excluded from spin-off group negotiations.
The EU and CANADA questioned whether geographic distribution of CDM and other issues listed for consideration under the Article 9 review should be addressed by the AWG-KP, while TUVALU said the nature of the Article 9 review process is not yet clear.
BOLIVIA, CHILE and MALAYSIA agreed that size was not the only problem, but believed there was enough experience concerning difficulties with developing projects to merit a revision of the limit.
On the  , Venezuela, supported by China, Brazil, Saudi Arabia and several other non-Annex I countries, stressed that sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP addresses “various approaches” to enhance mitigation and not only markets.
The US, supported by Samoa, suggested that the Secretariat develop terms of reference , referring to adverse effects, for future workshops in accordance with decision 13/CP.7.
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the early closure of SBI and SBSTA in Cancún to focus on the AWG-LCA, AWG-KP, COP and COP/MOP.
 Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the Adaptation Fund, Russian proposal, and AWG.
Parties opposing the proposed changes by Saudi Arabia and Bolivia introduced an alternative option containing the original text.
On text relating to the provision of information by LDCs through sources other than national communications, the G-77/China repeated that many developing countries had difficulties completing their national communications, and re-emphasised that other relevant information should also serve as the basis for determining their adaptation activities.
Sudan, for the African Group, emphasized issues of financing and transparency of support as the backbone of the implementation of the agreement.
Brazil, India, Saudi Arabia, Swaziland, Sudan and others emphasized that retaining the item in abeyance would constitute the most efficient use of time.
Belgium, for the EU, stressed that while the EU would prefer a single, legally-binding instrument including essential elements of the Protocol, it is flexible regarding the legal form, as long as it is binding.
In response to comments by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the EU and SWITZERLAND, COP President’s Special Representative Hedegaard reiterated that the drafting groups would report back to the contact group, and that the contact group would then, with the help of the Ministers, address outstanding political issues.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, opposed referring to the findings.
Italy, with South Africa and others, noted that agriculture should be clearly identified in the outline, with Italy also suggesting to include a chapter on transportation.
URUGUAY and BANGLADESH highlighted the usefulness of regional cooperation, and AUSTRALIA called for national efforts in climate observing systems.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with AOSIS, highlighted that impacts extend beyond fossil fuel exporting countries to SIDS and LDCs.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the importance of QELROs as part of the package moving towards a balanced and fair climate regime.
The EU, with SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA, said information contained in the TAR justified further action on climate change, and suggested consideration of the scientific and technical issues Parties would like the IPCC to address in the future.
The US, with POLAND, stressed that timeliness and completeness of submissions were critical in providing a basis for COP action.
Colombia, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, Peru and Uruguay, expressed “great interest” in the proposal by AOSIS.
With AOSIS, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, he sought clarification of the IPCC terms and definitions of afforestation, reforestation and deforestation.
The US, with AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, suggested addressing how discussions on capacity building differ from discussions on support in other contact groups under the AWG-LCA.
AUSTRALIA supported retention of the figure, but agreed with CHINA that the text should state that it refers to illustrative examples of the range of scenario studies.
New Zealand, with Austria and Hungary, and opposed by the Russian Federation, said the IPCC should defer consideration of further work on aerosols until the AR4 is completed.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Guatemala, for AILAC, and Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, stressed the importance of making progress on non-carbon benefits and REDD+ safeguards information systems.
The Chair directed that paragraph 1 of Appendix II be written as a separate decision and that the US and Philippines consult on 1.
Costa Rica, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, emphasized the need to reach agreement on market mechanisms and to increase investment in REDD+.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, advocated REDD+ as key to achieving global GHG reduction targets.
The EU emphasized the role of P&amp;Ms in compliance action plans and, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CHILE, advocated an open-ended list of facilitation consequences.
Tuvalu, with India, opposed by Australia, supported anchoring existing institutions in the agreement.
 On the section e2 80 99s title, Saudi Arabia requested referring to adaptation and mitigation e2 80 9coptions e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cmeasures, e2 80 9d while the UK preferred the more general title e2 80 9cAdaptation and Mitigation, e2 80 9d which was approved.
China, for BASIC, emphasized that a successful completion of the AWG-LCA must address all elements of the Bali Action Plan and must not leave key issues off the table, such as equitable access to sustainable development and intellectual property rights .
Chile, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE FOR LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , stressed the importance of the transparency framework, the global stocktake, and the mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance.
MICRONESIA, for AOSIS, emphasized data collection, and technologies for adaptation.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the current formulation of the paragraph on the basis would introduce conditionalities and standards.
On the statement that past emissions alone are unlikely to cause global warming, Sweden, supported by the Republic of Korea, cautioned that the text did not adequately reflect the headline statement’s intention to convey that warming to 1.5 c2 b0C and beyond is mainly dependent on current and future emissions.
On a paragraph referring to key needs to enable developing countries, particularly the LDCs, Africa and SIDS, to participate in the CDM, Panama, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM, opposed by the EU, suggested including reference to the most vulnerable regions and countries.
ARGENTINA, COLOMBIA, TANZANIA and others emphasized the need for adaptation funding and supported extending the share of proceeds.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, noted that a shared vision should be comprehensive and cover all four building blocks of the BAP.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said the level of impacts on vulnerable countries will depend on the scale of emissions reductions by developed countries.
TUVALU, with the EU, NEPAL and SWITZERLAND stressed the importance of cooperation with other conventions regarding LULUCF activities.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged ambitious Annex I targets in the range of 25-40% cuts by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
Facilitator Khan suggested, and parties agreed, that Egypt and Canada facilitate a drafting group on bunker fuels, and that Uruguay and New Zealand facilitate a drafting group on agriculture.
Opposing this, the EU, with JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION urged adopting the GPG for both the UNFCCC and the Protocol in order to prepare national inventories in time for implementation.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, said that minimizing impacts of climate change on SIDS and LDCs should be the benchmark, and proposed global emission reductions of 85% by 2050 from 1990 levels with peaking by 2020, complemented by reductions by Annex I countries of more than 95% by 2050 from 1990 levels.
Papua New Guinea, the Gambia, Colombia and Brazil supported the Chair’s proposal to forward the text for consideration by CMP.
While some parties, including the EU, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Canada, Norway and South Africa, expressed a clear interest in accessing CCS technology under the CDM, others opposed it for various reasons.
Switzerland, for the EIG, acknowledged the progress made in Bonn and expressed commitment to further progress towards a successful outcome in Durban.
SAMOA welcomed the development of software and called for support to Least Developed Countries, in particular for setting up more effective data collection and management systems.
On REDD+, with Panama, for the CfRN, Nepal, for the LDCs, Belize, for SICA, and BANGLADESH, he expressed frustration over the lack of progress on the methodological guidance for REDD+, stressing that there is no need for further guidance on safeguards.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by BOLIVIA, BRAZIL, SENEGAL, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, ARGENTINA, CUBA, ZAMBIA and CHINA, proposed taking note of those Annex I parties that oppose a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, focusing discussions on the conditionalities set by those Annex I parties interested in moving the process forward and seeing whether the conditions have been met or can be met, prior to a round of political decision-making.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and AOSIS said that only parties to a second commitment period should have access to the flexible mechanisms.
The conclusions also suggested that the list of projects submitted by non-Annex I Parties be brought to the attention of GEF and "as appropriate" other financing agencies, and required the contact group’s Co-Chairs to prepare a framework on elements of a draft decision, based on proposals by the G-77/CHINA and the EU.
Many countries, including INDIA, JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, ZIMBABWE, CANADA, NORWAY, the EU and MALAYSIA, supported the adoption of the Revised 1996 Guidelines for emission inventories.
SWITZERLAND said identifying elements for decision text is an evolving process, and the UAE suggested the ADP Co-Chairs make annotations of suggested placement in the revised text.
He outlined a proposal on behalf of the US, JAPAN and CANADA to account for the contribution of forests in Annex I Parties.
SAUDI ARABIA noted that “quite a few” elements of the G-77/China’s position seemed to be “conspicuously absent.” The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, emphasized that the document should be oriented towards “implementation on the ground.” With AUSTRALIA and BURKINA FASO, she also requested reference to particularly vulnerable states, including SIDS and LDCs.
The US, supported by the EU, suggested that workshops be organized based on status of preparation of communications, rather than on regions.
SOUTH AFRICA, GHANA and others said that a question-and-answer session had already taken place in Bangkok and urged faster progress under the group.
On sea-level rise, Cuba underscored its importance and delegates agreed to Saint Lucia 92s proposal to mention threats to settlements and facilities in addition to vital infrastructure.
MEXICO, Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, BINGOs, INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ORGANIZATIONS, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS and CIVIL SOCIETY welcomed the outcome.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at attempts to add new language that does not reflect the Convention, and called for finalizing Adaptation Fund negotiations and starting discussions on the global goal on adaptation.
Slovenia, for the EU, along with Japan, Australia and others, underscored the need to accelerate the process.
The US and the EU emphasized that: developed countries have provided assurance that there will be no financing gap in 2012-20; a work programme on long-term finance has been established; and developed countries are fully committed to providing fast-start finance.
Guyana and the Federated States of Micronesia stated that assessments are for the purpose of assessing the impacts on developing countries and how to address them.
e2 80 9d TANZANIA, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, urged enhancing capacities of national governments to absorb financial and technological resources, and opposed reference to e2 80 9cclear and predictable targets and outcomes.
Many parties, including the EU, South Africa, for the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/CHINA, and the Republic of Korea, for the EIG, suggested the ADP Co-Chairs produce a concise, coherent text with clear options to enable effective negotiations.
The Republic of Korea, supported by Belgium, welcomed the idea of an electronic forum.
The EU, US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand highlighted progress made, including the GEF 92s third replenishment, the establishment of the LDC Fund, and development of guidelines for National Adaptation Programmes of Action .
On commitments/contributions, Turkey preferred “contributions.” South Africa favored commitments with a legal character.
CHINA, supported by TOGO and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, said the decision recognized the need for adequate and additional financial resources for inventories, an enormous task for some developing countries.
The ADP Co-Chairs proposed that Franz Perrez, Switzerland, and Juan Hoffmaister, Bolivia, coordinate informal consultations, inter alia, on the global goal, institutional arrangements, including a possible registry, and linkages with support.
AUSTRALIA and the EU said all the scientific evidence indicates that actions by Annex I countries alone would be insufficient.
South Africa, for BASIC, highlighted unresolved issues, including equity, IPRs and unilateral trade measures.
 Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Colombia, for AILAC, Republic of Korea, for EIG, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, NORWAY, the EU, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GHANA, SOUTH AFRICA, TANZANIA, ZAMBIA, and ARGENTINA urged “welcoming,” rather than “noting,” the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 c2 b0C in the draft conclusions .
France proposed greater attention to social factors of adaptation, such as capacity building and knowledge sharing, and Brazil suggested clearly distinguishing between different needs and capabilities of countries for adaptation.
BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY suggested a COP decision in 2018.
Barbados, for AOSIS, noted that negotiations had reached a “critical juncture” and expressed “serious concern” with the pace, considering that only eleven days of negotiating time remain before Copenhagen.
Japan and Australia, for the Umbrella Group, also noted the important nature of the COP-9 outcomes.
The first part focused on addressing data and information gaps, including from the IPCC, and featured presentations by: the IPCC; the World Climate Research Programme, on behalf of other research organizations; the UN Convention to Combat Desertification ; Japan; EURO-CORDEX; and the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute.
Samoa, supported by the EU, reminded Parties of the agreement at Kyoto that the COP/MOP would not deal with routine CDM concerns.
Canada, the US and Australia stated that the current process works well, and opposed any modifications at this time.
Responding to questions by BRAZIL and CHINA on the possibility of implementing a 30% emission reduction by 2020, he noted Switzerland e2 80 99s willingness to increase ambition, but called for contributions by all parties.
ef bf bd CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, EU and JAPAN, proposed new paragraphs noting that SBSTA had not concluded the question relating to Protocol Article 6 and would further consider the issue at SBSTA-21.
The US and EU opposed a proposal by ARGENTINA in the SBI to clear text on national communications that the contact group had left bracketed.
Guyana, Ecuador, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Egypt distinguished between climate finance and official development assistance.
The PHILIPPINES, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and ARGENTINA supported an increase in the IPCC budget to ensure full participation by developing country experts.
NORWAY and CANADA suggested accounting approaches and sustainable land management, and TANZANIA identified the need for international sustainable development criteria.
Noting the different objectives of CDM and JI, JAPAN and POLAND argued against additional requirements on JI.
Regarding amendments to the terms and conditions of services to be provided by the World Bank, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern with the timeline for reviewing the Fund at COP/MOP 7 and the AFB’s proposal to extend the mandate of the World Bank as a trustee on an interim basis until COP/MOP 9.
Austria, New Zealand and many others highlighted the need for new emission scenarios prior to a fifth assessment report .
SAUDI ARABIA underscored that the G-77/CHINA needed more time to consider the guidelines.
SPAIN, on behalf of EU, proposed that methodologies should not include statistical adjustments.
JAPAN and the MARSHALL ISLANDS said consideration of compensation was unacceptable, since it is not provided for in the FCCC or the Protocol.
CUBA, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Malaysia, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, underscored the need to apply the CBDR principle and stated that a decision on this issue must await a decision on financial support.
MALAWI, UGANDA, the NETHERLANDS, SPAIN, PERU and others underscored the need to produce the Synthesis Report by UNFCCC COP-13 in 2007.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, observed that whether the SBI has the competency to deal with procedural issues under the COP is a legal issue that is ambiguous.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said a permanent forum is necessary to report, evaluate and address the specific needs and concerns of non-Annex I countries.
The Gambia, for the least developed countries , highlighted research and systematic observation and enhancement of the NWP to support adaptation implementation in LDCs.
The EU and Switzerland opposed sinks projects in the CDM, as it raised questions of methodological uncertainty, non-permanence and leakage.
On a proposal by the Chair on a possible task group on economics, France, Sweden and others opposed the creation of such a group but suggested greater attention be paid to economics by the Working Groups.
Chair Stoycheva agreed to suspend the adoption of the agenda to allow the G-77/China to consider the US proposal.
China, New Zealand, and South Africa, supported by the Coordinating Lead Authors, opposed this, given the possibility of decadal variability, and the reference was not included in this section.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Kuwait, suggested that increasing uncertainties in emissions scenarios with longer time scales, downward revisions in estimates of sea level rise, and differences in social costs of mitigation options require a cautious approach on adequacy of commitments.
Noting that the Summary for Policy Makers  is the main output of each of the Working Group reports and SYR, France called for broader distribution and wider access to hard copies and, with Italy, for more translations into non-UN languages.
 In its conclusions , the SBSTA inter alia: endorses the EGTT rolling programme of work for 2010-2011; welcomes the final EGTT report on performance indicators; and notes the offer of the Government of Belize to host the Latin America and Caribbean regional workshop on preparing technology transfer projects for financing, which will be held in Belize in 2010.
The G-77/CHINA requested reference to enhancing the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms under Protocol Article 2  in its entirety, while CANADA, the US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA urged limiting reference to Article 2.1 .
He explained that, since the issuance of this document, Honduras, for AILAC, Iran, for the Asia-Pacific States, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, had proposed new agenda items, each on the special needs and special circumstances of developing countries in their respective groups or regions.
The AFRICAN GROUP, GAMBIA and SRI LANKA called upon Parties to make available resources for institutional capacity enhancement and to expand the sphere of African countries participating in country studies.
On the nature of future activities, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, opposed by the EU, proposed reference to "future work" rather than "consultative process."
Several delegates, including the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SPAIN, objected to the removal of interpretation services.
INDIA stressed that the problem was not only a matter of different interpretations, and suggested deleting proposals inconsistent with the Convention, with the G-77/CHINA noting that the proposals on common mitigation frameworks create difficulties for progress in other areas.
Brazil, supported by the Gambia, highlighted CCS as a nationally appropriate mitigation action but opposed it under the CDM.
CANADA and SAMOA highlighted the need to act through the national communications process.
SIERRA LEONE expressed concern that the text did not reflect priorities of the LDCs.
VENEZUELA, supported by KUWAIT, proposed producing a written report along with their decisions, because an oral report could leave some things unclear.
Swaziland, for the African Group, welcomed the workshop-roundtables format.
JAPAN supporting Australia, US and Norway, stated that the Chair\'s draft conclusions were well balanced and acceptable.
Saying that they are a group of e2 80 9cbridge building engineers, e2 80 9d Costa Rica, for AILAC, urged all parties to redouble their efforts to find more points of convergence, calling for a mode of work that leads to tangible results in Lima.
SWITZERLAND, CANADA and the EU agreed that the global goal should be qualitative, with SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN stressing it should focus on promoting resilience by integrating adaptation into national policies.
China and Saudi Arabia called for a procedural outcome.
An informal group chaired by the Ministers from Brazil and Japan was established, with the assistance of the former Chair of the contact group on mechanisms, Kok Kee Chow.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, and supported by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, recalled that COP will review the progress of the pilot phase of AIJ and urged the Secretariat to compile information on this topic before the next session.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for a legally-binding agreement prioritizing adaptation and scaling up financing.
Barbados, for AOSIS, cautioned against reopening issues that are in the GCF Governing Instrument.
She suggested, opposed by the EU and NORWAY, deleting paragraphs 82.3-4, 83, 84 and 85 on: simplified access to funding; evolving needs, capabilities and responsibilities; provision of support; a transparency framework; and efforts of non-state actors.
Monaco, on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group , highlighted the need for progress on technical issues, such as LULUCF, the transformation of emission reduction pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives , carry-over of surplus assigned amount units , and the flexibility mechanisms.
AILAC, the EU and the US supported early entry into force, and, with the LMDCs, emphasized it should not affect parties’ right to fully participate in the rulemaking process.
The US, supported by Japan, called for excluding reference to loss and damage, saying this was not an aspect referred to in Decision 1/CP.17.
The US, supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed organizing workshops instead of a negotiating session.
Responding to France’s question about making information available to climate decision makers, Delju said WMO has prepared several documents, including the position paper “The WMO’s Contribution to Improved Decision Making for Climate Adaptation.” Noting the large number of action plans, including for Central Asia, the Russian Federation asked Westermeyer about progress in implementing these plans, and WMO asked about developing such plans for South America.
In the conclusions , the SBSTA, inter alia, invites Parties and the Secretariat to cooperate to achieve a successful outcome at the World Climate Change Conference, to be held in Moscow, Russian Federation, from 29 September to 3 October 2003; welcomes the announcement by India about a technology bazaar to be held in New Delhi from 10-13 November 2003, and a high-level round-table on "The CDM: opportunities for international cooperation" to be held on 10 November; and notes that, subject to the availability of financial resources, a special meeting of the EGTT and a workshop on adaptation will take place in Delhi during the technology bazaar.
The US and Japan stated that the key elements of the arrangements were already agreed on; the GCF has independent juridical authority operating under the guidance of the COP, and is therefore capable of drafting the arrangements.
The EU said Convention Article 2  is not sufficient, and AOSIS stated that the task is to operationalize Article 2 in light of scientific advances.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for: initiating work on a new quantified finance goal; reaching a decision on the Adaptation Fund; defining loss and damage; and completing the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue by COP 23.
The EU, supported by Norway, highlighted the “fine and balanced” Durban compromise, consisting of: a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; a pre-2020 mitigation work plan; agreement by 2015 applicable to all; concluding the AWG-LCA; and operationalizing the institutions created in Cancun and Durban.
The US and EU stated that IPRs are not a hurdle and welcomed a business and industry proposal for a voluntary consultative mechanism within the UNFCCC.
While the Russian Federation and Ukraine supported this course of action, the EU noted legal and practical difficulties.
COLOMBIA, on behalf of Chile, Panama, the Dominican Republic and Peru, stressed the need for the existing financial mechanism to be used effectively and for national communications to be strengthened and capacities increased.
On public participation, presenters shared experiences in: INDC development in Chile; civil society participation in UN country delegations; legal frameworks for public participation in climate policy in Mexico; community involvement in adaptation projects in Senegal and the Philippines; and civil society participation in environmental governance in Nepal and Sri Lanka.
The EU, supported by Saudi Arabia and others, proposed holding an intersessional workshop to enable further discussion on carbon dioxide capture and storage.
Peru, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , Tuvalu, for the LDCs, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and the Russian Federation emphasized the section contextualizes the agreement e2 80 99s objective.
Slovenia, for the EU, predicted that further discussions will be difficult, and underscored the need to be innovative and open-minded to achieve an ambitious level of emission reductions.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the need to arrive at an effective agreement in Copenhagen.
AOSIS, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, and CANADA stressed the need to ensure transparency and consistency between national inventories and that of the RIOs.
The UK, for the EU, wanted to establish a SBSTA process to follow up on the report, suggesting an expert meeting or workshop.
Matthew Webb, UK, and Li Gao, China, presented on the new zero emissions coal initiative, which includes the construction and operation of a CCS demonstration project in China between 2010-2014.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for agreement on a shared vision to preserve their islands and people as a priority, taking into consideration their low adaptive capacity.
Preferring option 2, Gabon, for the African Group, and Argentina, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, said the Co-Chairs’ informal document could further progress towards the development of draft outcomes of text.
EGYPT, opposed by the US and EU, suggested that two paragraphs were repetitious: a paragraph welcoming developed countries’ progress toward the goal of mobilizing US$100 billion annually by 2020; and paragraph 1, welcoming submissions by developed countries in response to Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 114 .
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, lamented that many issues were still in their “conceptual” stages and stressed greater urgency.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported extension of the LEG’s mandate so as to enable the LEG to provide assistance for implementing the LDC work programme.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, said a shared vision means developed countries taking the lead in reducing emissions and developing countries pursuing a clean development path avoiding past mistakes, with adaptation as an integral element.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted its commitment to a strong post-2012 outcome, noting a desire for a ratifiable agreement encompassing all parties to the Convention.
The EU and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported the proposal to address cross-cutting issues in the contact group.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported a transition towards a climate change framework including all major economies, taking into account countries’ respective capabilities.
With the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and VENEZUELA, but opposed by CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, he supported text referencing Protocol Article 18  in the establishment of the compliance committee.
Argentina, the EU, Norway and others supported controlling maritime and aviation emissions under the UNFCCC, while Singapore and other preferred addressing them through the IMO and ICAO.
The EU, Switzerland and Slovenia said information contained in the TAR justified further action on climate change, and Norway supported discussions on stronger emissions reductions and broader participation beyond 2012, suggesting that SBSTA launch a process to strengthen commitments.
The EU said developing draft decision texts in Panama is key for a successful outcome in Durban and called for work towards a comprehensive legally-binding framework engaging all parties, including major economies.
During a joint session with the “other issues” group, the EU, supported by a number of developed country parties, reiterated the importance of fixing LULUCF rules before agreement on further commitments, with New Zealand underscoring that if there is a significant change in rules, it would have to recalculate its target.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to avoid lengthy discussions on this issue.
The EU, Canada, Australia, Japan, the US, AOSIS, and New Zealand noted that while the text did not serve all their interests, they supported its use as the basis for negotiation.
 Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported the Bali roadmap and progress on technological cooperation and deforestation.
Belgium, Sweden, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and others also suggested including, inter alia, impacts on water as well as on food production, biodiversity, and environmental and social impacts.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for support for planning and elaboration of NAMAs to be provided within the same support system as for mitigation.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested separating the ideas of catalyzing and enhancing adaptation action from support.
Maldives, for the LDCs, said a 2°C temperature rise would take the world into the “danger zone.” Both AOSIS and LDCs urged a limit of 1.5°C temperature rise and greenhouse gas concentrations of no more than 350 ppm, as well as 40% emission reductions by developed countries by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
A call by India and the Maldives to include national bodies was ultimately not accepted.
The Cook Islands, supported by Sudan, stressed the need for rapid vulnerability assessment tools.
AUSTRALIA and NORWAY called for a focus on core issues.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and AUSTRALIA called for discussion of credits from new market mechanisms.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stated that future revision of reporting guidelines would be useful.
The EU, Norway, Belgium and others proposed language reflecting that CO2 remains in the atmosphere for a long time.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed “great concern” that current emission reduction pledges would lead to a long-term temperature increase of 4°C and that six months after COP 15, financing for adaptation is yet to materialize.
INDIA and CHINA proposed deletion of a paragraph that calls on the CGE to consider steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the FCCC.
On lighting and district energy systems in cities, moderator John Christensen, UN Environment Programme, reported on presentations on: operating district cooling networks in Paris, France; a pilot project on district energy systems in Rajkot, India; lighting and district energy systems in Catalonia, Spain; and financing energyefficiency projects in urban environments in Latin America.
Canada, with the US and Japan, emphasized that the Copenhagen workshop on P&amp;Ms fulfilled relevant BAPA requirements.
CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and AUSTRALIA supported the expansion of research on climate change conducted by IGOs and national governments, particularly in the area of capacity building.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that there is no contradiction between ambition and equity, and that equity should be the “gateway to ambition.” He noted that ambition should also be multi-dimensional.
SOUTH AFRICA, with COLOMBIA, Grenada, for AOSIS, AUSTRALIA, Spain, for the EU, JAMAICA, BOLIVIA, NIGERIA, GUATEMALA, and PAPUA NEW GUINEA, regretted the lack of an outcome on this item and supported further discussions at SBSTA 33.
He also expressed regret at the passing away of two prominent figures in climate change negotiations: Jean Ripert of France, who chaired the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee that resulted in the adoption of the FCCC in 1992; and Zhong Shukong, Special Advisor on Environmental Issues in China 92s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Mexico, Guyana, Belize, for CARICOM, and Brazil emphasized building on existing institutions.
 On the analysis of mitigation potentials, several Annex I parties, including Norway, Canada and Japan, stressed the importance of placing Annex I mitigation efforts in a global context.
On identification of decision text, Bolivia, for the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/CHINA, supported by many developing countries, said this step should be preceded by a discussion on substance.
The Cook Islands underscored the importance of several courses of action addressing the urgent needs of the most vulnerable countries, and with Bangladesh and others, called for an ad hoc expert group on adaptation.
The US, supported by INDIA, CANADA and JAPAN, said the list should acknowledge the need for open and effective communications and that high priority should be given to regular joint meetings between SBSTA and the IPCC.
The Russian Federation, Japan and Canada reiterated that they will not inscribe targets under a second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
BELARUS and SWITZERLAND said voluntary accounting is better than not accounting for wetlands at all.
BARBADOS supported Option C. The US said his own preference would be similar to the Australian proposal.
Kiribati, the UK, Denmark, Belgium and Norway opposed, and supported having it as a stand-alone topic.
VENEZUELA, speaking on behalf of Argentina, Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia, China, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Ecuador, El Salvador, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Paraguay, Palestine, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, Thailand, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, called for open-ended, transparent and inclusive consultations.
 In the ensuing discussion, Mexico responded to a question from Brazil by explaining that land use subsidies in Mexico are changing toward improving and intensifying, rather than expanding, productive systems.
Saudi Arabia, China, Ghana, Austria, Germany, Belgium, Senegal, WGIII Vice-Chair c3 9crge-Vorsatz, Trinidad and Tobago, and others opposed limiting the group to 20 members.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: The contact group on non-Annex I communications discussed proposals submitted by the G-77/China and the EU on consideration of non-Annex I communications.
ARGENTINA offered text on accounting and reporting that supported Brazil’s concerns about the environmental integrity of Article 6.2 transactions.
Several countries, including Grenada, Togo, and China, pointed to inconsistencies between this section and the corresponding chapter in the underlying report.
TUVALU, supported by the G-77/CHINA and opposed by NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, proposed including development of modalities for the application of the Principles.
 On the scope of the review, AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP and CHINA warned against undermining the Protocol.
On Thursday, 4 December, Sudan, for the African Group, supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/China, Saudi Arabia, Maldives, India, South Africa, Ecuador, Zambia, Pakistan, Argentina and others, introduced a conference room paper  containing draft elements on climate finance under the ADP, requesting that it replace the Co-Chairs’ non-paper as the basis for discussion.
China, with Pakistan and Argentina, requested references to the BAP and, with Algeria, for the Arab Group, and others, to previous COP decisions.
The US and several developing countries highlighted mitigation actions already implemented by developing countries, and Mexico and others identified the need for their recognition.
Tuvalu, on behalf of AOSIS, called for future commitments under Article 3.9, and said efforts to streamline the CDM should not compromise its environmental integrity.
On Tuesday, 21 November, youth representatives from Kenya and the UK reported to COP-6 on the International Youth Conference held the previous week, which was attended by 118 young people from 61 countries, and urged all delegates to read and address the Youth Declaration.
CHINA, TAJIKISTAN, EGYPT and SUDAN supported a greater focus on the needs of developing countries in terms of observing systems, and BURUNDI, KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the importance of early warning systems.
Armenia, Ecuador, Georgia, Jamaica, and Serbia presented.
The LMDCs and the African Group, opposed by AOSIS, called for identifying opportunities for actions with high adaptation potential, in addition to mitigation, and, opposed by Australia, for text differentiating between mitigation opportunities in developed and developing countries.
JAPAN and others highlighted links with the AWG-LCA, while the G-77/CHINA, INDIA, COLOMBIA and others indicated that the AWG-LCA is waiting for progress under the AWG-KP.
China, for the BASIC countries, said defining a second commitment period should be the main priority for Durban.
A number of parties, including AOSIS, the EU, MEXICO, NEW ZEALAND and the US, stressed the need to consider loss and damage, and response measures separately.
The Russian Federation and Japan have not completed their analyses of the proposals.
 Argentina, for G-77/China, noted the G-77/China’s role in renegotiating the agenda and underscored that it accommodated everyone’s concerns.
KENYA, for the Africa Group, stressed the need for progress in the implementation of decision 5/CP.7.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern where no progress was made due to time constraints.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Panama and Uruguay, said market-based approaches have proven to, inter alia: encourage private sector investment; benefit local environments; and contribute to job creation.
On the length and number of commitment periods and base year, the G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS and the AFRICAN GROUP, preferred a single five-year commitment period with a base year of 1990.
On the “food-water-energy-climate” workshop sub-theme, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the UK, asked for the energy reference to be removed, noting that energy had already been discussed in other IPCC products.
Emphasizing that the public sector should be the main source of finance, BANGLADESH said that global markets had failed to deliver and “no place for LDCs and SIDS” had been created.
Mali, for the African Group, called for “effective and fair” participation of all parties and supported creating a contact group on this item at COP 22.
New Zealand, with the EU, US and Japan, emphasized that such estimates from all sectors should be prepared under good practice guidance, and be adjusted when they are not prepared according to the agreed methodologies.
In the ensuing discussion, Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, and supported by Oman, emphasized the responsibilities of Annex I Parties regarding methodologies and reporting.
Tuvalu emphasized that countries who will not be party to the Kyoto Protocol should not participate in discussions on the rules, recalling a similar scenario in the original Kyoto Protocol negotiations, in an attempt to avoid “futile discussions about detail when we know parties will not be implementing that detail.” He said he does not see the value in addressing rules or looking at scenarios and did not support Colombia’s proposal.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, opposed a technical paper synthesizing types of adaptation-related information included in NDCs.
The UK suggested adding language noting that the scale and magnitude of the rate of change depends on emission scenarios, but after comments from WGI Co-Chair Stocker and Saudi Arabia on the need for short and concise headline statements, the Panel agreed to the text as earlier amended without the addition proposed by the UK.
Tuvalu, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that consequential amendments, which arise from the amendment of Annex B, must be considered to ensure legal consistency with the Kyoto Protocol.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted that building a new regime takes time, identifying Durban as the next step in the process that can move forward the Cancun undertakings.
BRAZIL, with SAMOA and the EU, suggested framing "financial penalty" as a separate option.
Brazil, Peru, Chile, Colombia, New Zealand, Costa Rica, Bolivia, Australia, the US, Japan, Uruguay, Canada, Norway and the Environmental Integrity Group argued in favor of inclusion, citing a variety of motivations and preconditions.
The G-77/China, with Saudi Arabia, Burkina Faso, and the EU, called for increased funding for the participation of delegates from developing countries.
Regarding economic diversification, Saudi Arabia highlighted links to risk management and AOSIS supported identification of options to enhance capacity for diversification.
He agreed with India and the Republic of Korea on the need to know the economic implications of P&amp;M adopted by Annex I Parties.
GUYANA, ECUADOR, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and EGYPT distinguished between climate finance and overseas development assistance.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said that agreement on a second commitment period is a top priority that requires engagement and movement away from the precondition that all parties take on responsibilities.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, called for a work plan that includes a third workshop to be held in October 2002.
Saudi Arabia, Libya , Kuwait, Venezuela, and Nigeria opposed the use of this text, and proposed using the last version of the draft conclusions or conclude that there was no agreement.
Responding to a question by PAKISTAN on the definition and achievement of Sweden e2 80 99s e2 80 9cno net emissions by 2050 e2 80 9d target, she explained a government commission appointed in 2013 will propose a definition and additional measures to reach the goal.
 Thomas Kolly, Switzerland, highlighted Switzerland\'s efforts to reduce emissions over a number of sectors, adding that his country had among the lowest per capita emissions in the OECD, but faced a looming electricity supply gap in the future.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, highlighted that the CDM cannot continue unless the Kyoto Protocol continues and said a signal regarding the continuation of the CDM requires the establishment of a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period.
On scope, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and the AFRICAN GROUP drew attention to Decision 2/CP.17 , which stipulates that parties will continue working on the scope of the Review and consider its further definition.
 The Republic of Korea and China proposed extending the Convention Dialogue for two more years and Iran supported continuing it in the current format.
The Netherlands said it would continue to implement its Protocol obligations in the absence of the Russian Federation 92s ratification.
NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, the US and TURKEY said a shared vision needs to be brief and concise.
PARAGUAY, COLOMBIA and others supported text on engagement of indigenous peoples.
Maldives, for AOSIS, also expressed concern over the pace of work.
The EU and SWITZERLAND supported including reference to the IPCC AR4.
Bolivia, for ALBA and Paraguay, said it is unacceptable for Annex I parties to make new commitments conditional on greater flexibility for their economies and governments.
Brazil called for funding to enhance capabilities to address gaps in data quality and quantity in some developing countries, and Argentina stressed the need to increase involvement of institutions working on regional aspects of climate change, including through regional workshops.
Ethiopia, for LDCs, said the issue is a controversial one as it is being discussed under both the AWG-KP and the COP/MOP.
KUWAIT, IRAN and INDIA said that issues taken up should be restricted to those submitted by Parties and subsidiary bodies.
In response to a request by Australia, Algeria and others on precipitation long-term trends, a footnote was inserted to draw attention to the fact that the assessed regions are those considered in the TAR and in Chapter 11 of the underlying report.
Laos and Jamaica will become parties in early April and may participate in discussions, but do not have a vote.
China and Brazil highlighted that in developing countries, MRV should take place nationally.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States , supporting the G-77 and China, said that SBSTA needs to prioritize and pay attention to scientific assessments, national communications from Annex I Parties, and technology transfer.
GERMANY suggested a ceiling for mechanisms and, with FRANCE, supported the inclusion of sanctions in the compliance system.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to retain capacity building as a distinct section, requested a sub-section delineating actions, and proposed a mechanism, possibly in the form of a funding window, to enable financing.
With the G-77/CHINA and the US, the EU said the Protocol did not create property rights, and stated that emissions trading was a way of fulfilling obligations under the Protocol.
Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Japan said ICAO and IMO are currently the best venues for addressing these issues.
New Zealand said that the issue could be added to a future session agenda if substantive discussions were required, and Finland requested a written report from the gender meeting to facilitate information sharing for those who were not present.
PERU, the Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted the time lost last week and supported continued discussion of Annex I emission reductions.
Although opposing retention of the listed initiatives, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, also provided amendments to the existing text in case it should be retained, including: replacing text on the assessment of demonstrable progress by 2005 with a request to Parties to "continue sharing information"; replacing the requirement to assess and minimize the adverse effects of P&amp;Ms with a requirement to facilitate information sharing on this issue; and bracketing reference to the use of "quantitative criteria" in reporting on P&amp;Ms in national communications.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested a new paragraph be included in the negotiating text.
The EIG, supported by the EU, stated that the duration of the second commitment period should be eight years.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said the COP decision should focus on parameters and timelines for the phase after Durban, including nominations and Board composition.
China, for the LMDCs, and the EU noted that the paragraph’s placement could suggest that the focus of workstream 2 is only on voluntary activities.
The G-77/ China, opposed by the EU, Japan and the US, questioned the utility of intersessional consultations on the TAR prior to SBSTA-19.
FIJI and CHAD asked how much time experts would spend on this review and the time limit for submissions of names.
The Committee agreed that AOSIS and Germany would present their proposals on Wednesday morning and that the rules of procedure would be discussed on Friday.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged progress on items such as land use, land-use change and forestry  and the flexibility mechanisms, and expressed commitment to continuous, effective action on climate change now, up to and beyond 2012.
The US, with Canada and the EU said the proposal addressed issues currently under consideration in other negotiating groups, such as discussions on Stage III adaptation, and cautioned against moving beyond other related negotiations.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need to address loss and damage, and links between mitigation and adaptation.
BOTSWANA and THAILAND offered to host regional workshops.
The EU stressed that the formulation on loss and damage is “deeply problematic.” TIMOR LESTE called for a standalone mechanism for loss and damage.
The US proposed information sharing on cost-benefit analyses used to evaluate P&amp;Ms, and JAPAN highlighted the importance of national circumstances.
TURKEY, MEXICO, SOUTH AFRICA and others pointed out that they have already undertaken national mitigation actions.
In 2009, the AWGs convened for parallel sessions: April, June and August in Bonn, Germany; October in Bangkok, Thailand; November in Barcelona, Spain; and December in Copenhagen, Denmark.
The UK, opposed by the US, proposed that the paper serve as 93the 94 basis for negotiations on compliance at the next session of the JWG.
The AFRICAN GROUP, INDIA, NORWAY and others supported establishment of regional adaptation centers.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA, opposed including specific quantitative financial commitments, with AUSTRALIA suggesting enabling environments, and not quantitative targets, motivate private sector engagement.
During COP/MOP 92s final days, general agreement was reached, with a compromise agreement on a second review in 2008, as the EU wanted, and including explicit reference to the review not leading to new commitments, as the G-77/China preferred.
Uzbekistan requested a COP decision to enable CACAM to receive financial support and its experts to be nominated and participate in expert groups.
The AFRICAN GROUP and INDIA proposed deleting the cluster on plans and strategies, while AUSTRALIA, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN supported retaining it.
Nepal, for LDCs, warned that international cooperative initiatives cannot replace mid- and long-term commitments.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the GAMBIA, proposed deleting reference to the second commitment period, preferring language on “subsequent commitment periods.” The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, JAPAN and others also opposed reference to “environmental integrity,” identifying it as a political, not a legal, issue.
On Item 3, Review of information and possible decisions under Article 4.2, delegates agreed on the proposal that Croatia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia replace Czechoslovakia in Annex I.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated the importance of building on the informal notes from APA 1-3, and expressed concern about developed countries’ lack of political will on indicating funding for developing countries.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed: that loss and damage be included in the agreement separately from adaptation; clarifying the relationship between the agreement and COP decisions; and considering headings and subheadings.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, explained that their proposal for funding sources in the form of assessed contributions from developed countries was based on the experiences of the Group.
Chile, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Peru and the Dominican Republic, noted that a balanced package of decisions is “neither nebulous nor vague.”
AUSTRIA, AUSTRALIA and others expressed concern that the language implied greater technical maturity and scientific analysis on ocean storage than actually exists.
 However, a number of developing countries, such as URUGUAY and VIETNAM, were critical of developed country progress on reaching 1990 levels, as well as their efforts toward fulfilling the Berlin Mandate.
Brazil and Samoa warned against sacrificing the environmental integrity of the CDM, while Australia and Switzerland asserted that rules can be simplified while maintaining stringency in environmental outcomes.
Chile, for AILAC, MEXICO and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested nationally determined adaptation commitments, considering: the dynamic nature of action; maladaptation; avoiding additional burdens on developing countries; building on existing tools; promoting human rights; as well as science- and traditional knowledge-based adaptation.
 In the morning session on mitigation, on the sub-section on long-term and global aspects, SOUTH AFRICA stressed a long-term goal should be consistent with what is required by science, and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the goal should be to keep the temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The EU suggested that the legal and technical review had not taken into account the guidance document and, with the US, JAPAN, and NORWAY, said that developing guidance to the Fund should be considered at COP-8.
HUNGARY and the AFRICA GROUP, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, advocated implementation of a quantitative limitation on the flexibility mechanisms.
BANGLADESH, TUVALU, EGYPT and GUATEMALA said they had yet to be contacted by the COP President for consultations and noted that they should be inclusive, transparent and include all major groups.
India and Pakistan suggested the paragraph is unnecessary, and Saudi Arabia agreed, noting “practices of the UN” is a vague term and proposed continuing with existing working methods.
 On a sentence identifying the main criteria for evaluating policies and instruments, China questioned reference to “political feasibility,” and the UK said this is not relevant for technical evaluation of policies.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, called for COP 23 to work on developing implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement, clarifying the Talanoa Dialogue design and advancing the Global Climate Action Agenda.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested convening a stocktaking session on Thursday before making a decision.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, stated that for legally-binding provisions, the committee should focus on compliance and otherwise on facilitating actions.
THAILAND, for the G-77/CHINA, said he looked forward to the second review.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, underscored the need for a three-year work programme on agriculture to include international cooperation on research and development of climate resilient agricultural systems and disseminate research outcomes and technology outputs.
In the contact group on Saturday, 6 December, the EU and New Zealand said Protocol development activities should remain in the core budget.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by China, for the LMDCs, called for a comprehensive approach addressing all building blocks of pre-2020 action, following three permanent and parallel tracks: accelerated implementation process; technical expert process; and high-level engagement.
 The CMP adopted the report on credentials , with the addition of the Cook Islands, Egypt, Fiji, Haiti, Honduras, Kiribati, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
NORWAY and JAPAN highlighted that their participation in the flexibility mechanisms must also be considered.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the APA must be comprehensive, and reflect the “delicate” balance achieved in the Paris Agreement.
FRANCE, speaking for the EU, suggested that the momentum from Kyoto had been lost.
On the EB, Norway, Canada, Japan and the US, opposed by the G-77/China, highlighted a role for the EB in determining new baseline and monitoring methodologies.
In 2009, the AWGs met in: April, June and August in Bonn, Germany; October in Bangkok, Thailand; November in Barcelona, Spain; and December in Copenhagen, Denmark.
On the section on Natural and managed resources and ecosystems, and their uses , South Africa, with Thailand, suggested that terrestrial ecosystems should be a stand-alone chapter, and Thailand suggested referring to inland water systems instead of freshwater systems in line with the Convention on Biological Diversity.
Canada noted its experience with establishing a similar committee, and France, the EU, the UK, China, and Ukraine expressed interest in participating in such a committee.
South Africa, with the EU, noted a country-driven approach and programmatic financing.
On preamble, general and objective, Guatemala, for AILAC, with NORWAY, said the agreement should include references to gender issues, intergenerational matters and, with CHILE, the PHILIPPINES and MEXICO, human rights.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said Bonn had provided a good opportunity to enhance understanding on each other e2 80 99s positions.
China, supported by Saudi Arabia and Argentina and opposed by Canada, introduced text stating, inter alia, that “Annex I parties shall not resort to unilateral measures against imports from developing countries.” Saudi Arabia stressed that this issue lies at the core of the discussions on potential consequences and that Annex I parties must not be allowed to use environmental protection as pretext to impose tariffs or trade barriers.
SAMOA, speaking for AOSIS, said that despite the adoption of the precautionary principle in 1992, Annex I countries are yet to act to address climate change.
Other proposals addressed included: Tuvalu’s and others’ proposal to include devegetation to balance out accounting for revegetation; Canada’s proposal for assuming zero emissions or removals for cases of carbon saturation in cropland management; Iceland’s proposal to include wetland restoration and degradation as an optional activity under Article 3.4 ; and two different proposals by New Zealand and Tuvalu for accounting for harvested wood products.
Inclusion is also favored by the Environmental Integrity Group , and some developing countries, such as Peru, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Bolivia and Uruguay.
On  , the Maldives, for the G-77/China, underscored that adaptation is critical for all developing countries.
AUSTRALIA said this issue should be for individual developing countries to decide, and underlined that US silence on the matter did not necessarily indicate a lack of support for the issue.
Chile, for AILAC, underscored among key elements: a structure for differentiation to operationalize the CBDR; a mechanism that allows countries to become more ambitious when their circumstances evolve; a periodic scientific review; and a common-rules framework that could be implemented with differentiation over time and include incentives.
China and Brazil underscored the importance of fulfilling the mandate from COP 17 to develop methodologies for reporting financial information with a view to recommending a decision to COP 20.
The US stated that current modeling remains highly uncertain, and Canada and Australia stressed the importance of data availability.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, noted: the usefulness of guiding questions to focus discussions on agenda items; the need to accelerate pre-2020 action; and the importance of coherence across all issues under the APA.
Tanzania, Chile and Zambia urged restricting focus to 1.5     c2 b0C and not higher degrees of warming.
SWITZERLAND preferred prioritizing Article 3.3, while the EU stressed emissions reduction as the main emphasis when considering Article 3.4.
AOSIS, supported by several developing countries, expressed concern that the informal meeting was going beyond the mandate agreed at SBSTA-11 and, with the EU, objected to the consideration of draft elements for a decision, noting that many issues remain to be analyzed and discussed.
WG I Co-Chair Stocker, supported by the Netherlands, the US and others, stressed focusing on what makes sense in terms of science.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported the general approach but said she needed more time to coordinate.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, welcomed the draft MOU and said that the draft was "balanced" and had been approved at the fifth GEF Council meeting.
AFGHANISTAN supported the extension of the LEG’s mandate to, inter alia: support mainstreaming adaptation in LDCs and aligning NAPAs with government economic planning and budgetary process.
At the SBSTA Plenary on Friday, 6 June, Canada, supported by the Russian Federation, and opposed by the EU and G-77/China, requested that SBSTA 92s conclusions take note of Canada 92s proposal for a study on the role of trade in cleaner energy in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC and the Protocol.
The Gambia, for LDCs, highlighted that the ADP’s mandate provides an opportunity to enhance the mitigation ambition and adopt a new protocol under the Convention applicable to all, taking into consideration equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
CHINA labeled the EB’s recent decision to rejects its wind power projects as “unfair” and “non-transparent.” He suggested that the decision was based on the assumption that China has reduced feed-in tariffs in order to promote CDM projects.
  On Friday morning, Chair Owen-Jones distributed a new draft text that included a new annex based on proposals by the US, AOSIS and Indonesia.
New Zealand, supported by Ireland, Japan, the US, Spain, China, Switzerland and Slovenia, suggested an expert meeting as a first step, with no time pressure to produce anything before the UNFCCC COP in Paris in 2015.
The EU and SWITZERLAND said their submissions on baselines for CDM applied to JI.
The Gambia, for Least Developed Countries , highlighted that the ADP’s mandate provides an opportunity to enhance the mitigation ambition and adopt a new protocol under the Convention applicable to all, taking into consideration equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
Noting that many IPCC brochures are still only in English, Madagascar, supported by Comoros, highlighted difficulties with the translation of IPCC material into the UN languages.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, and opposed by MALAYSIA, CHINA and ARGENTINA, said the report provided a sound basis to initiate the revised UNFCCC guidelines.
Bhutan emphasized the need for active participation by LDCs, suggesting their exemption from an adaptation surcharge.
The US and Belgium underlined the need for a definition of the assessment cycle or for an end date for each Bureau.
Peru recommended the inclusion of uncertainties, while the US said uncertainties should fall under national inventory reporting .
Belize, for AOSIS, supported by COSTA RICA, MALAWI and the PHILIPPINES, proposed amendments, including, inter alia, encouraging UN specialized funds and agencies to support the development of modalities with wide participation by, and through technical meetings, among experts; and ensuring that the modalities are developed in time to be integrated into the transparency framework.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the text needed “a surgery” so that some “vital organs,” such as loss and damage, could be inserted.
The Russian Federation and Belarus emphasized that different economic circumstances must be taken into account when defining new targets.
Jamaica, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , expressed concern about the Resource Allocation Framework  of the Global Environment Facility .
The possibility for the Compliance Committee to receive questions of implementation submitted by a Party with respect to another Party was supported by the G-77/China and EU, and opposed by Australia and the Russian Federation.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, underscored the need for agreed full-cost funding for non-Annex I national communications, lamented the lack of a clear outcome on the Adaptation Fund review and expressed hope that the fourth review of the financial mechanism would pave the way for the effective operation of funds.
COLOMBIA, also speaking for Chile and Costa Rica, said international legal personality was sufficiently provided for in the governing instrument.
ARGENTINA, PANAMA and BURKINA FASO underlined the need to integrate the preparation of national communications in the development process of host countries.
The EU, Japan, Australia and New Zealand called for addressing the issue, with the EU stressing the need to decide what happens to CDM projects in EU member states that are non-Annex I parties.
On finance, MEXICO, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested that the group should wait until discussion had proceeded in other contact groups.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the need to fully implement the LDC work programme, lamented that the LDCF does not contain adequate resources to fully implement national adaptation programmes of action  and opposed the co-financing requirement.
The PHILIPPINES urged parties to “walk fast, far and forward.” AUSTRALIA identified ambition as a broader issue that must be addressed beyond the Protocol’s second commitment period.
CHINA and AUSTRALIA called for a focus on practical steps, and AUSTRALIA, with NORWAY, proposed convening round-tables at SBSTA-20.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China , supported a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol as part of a balanced and comprehensive outcome for Durban, saying the Cancun Agreements should be fully operationalized.
Following informal consultations on the draft conclusions late Tuesday night, 9 December, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the G-77/ China, Micronesia, US, EU, New Zealand, Australia, Japan and Canada, reversed its earlier support for text on reporting on actions to address the adverse affects of response measures, and proposed adding brackets.
With Egypt, Argentina, Sri Lanka and the African Group, he said funding should come from public sources, be additional to official development assistance , and be subject to MRV.
The US questioned including a reference to a position paper, but China insisted the inclusion was its sovereign right.
Delegates agreed to a footnote on storage of mineral carbonates, as amended by FRANCE and the UK to exclude deep geological storage of carbonates.
The G-77/CHINA, KUWAIT and VENEZUELA stressed the importance of technological development relating to fossil fuels for diversification of economies in oil exporting developing countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for coordination between the AWGs and stressed that the agreement should capture the full range of mitigation efforts, with common architecture and obligations grounding the common responsibility of all countries to mitigate climate change.
WGIII Co-Chair Bert Metz supported by Sweden, Denmark and others, noted that new scenarios will only be fully available by 2012 and will not be fully disseminated in the literature until after that.
On the host country for the GCF, he observed that Germany, Mexico, Namibia, Poland, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland had expressed an interest in hosting the GCF.
CUBA, with SAUDI ARABIA, proposed a workshop on economic and social consequences of response measures.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported a long-term goal, noting that action on adaptation is dependent on mitigation and the global temperature limit.
The US, Norway and Canada stressed that the IPCC historically operates differently than the UNFCCC negotiations and should remain a collegial body focused on overcoming problems and finding solutions.
Answering BRAZIL e2 80 99s question on the role of certified emission reduction units supporting France in achievement of its target under the Kyoto Protocol e2 80 99s first commitment period, he noted they amounted to 2% of France e2 80 99s assigned amount unit budget.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the successful adoption of the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol will be the single most important outcome from Doha, expressing the hope that the AWG-KP will finalize its mandate regarding all outstanding issues.
Tuvalu, supported by Norway and Zambia, considered financing of readiness activities and implementation to represent a spectrum within a single issue.
Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , called for living up to the promises made in Paris and stressed that delaying work beyond COP 24 is not an option.
The EU and the Marshall Islands expressed interest in discussing hydrofluorocarbons .
The Netherlands, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, opposed by Norway and Morocco, suggested that the 5-8 pages allotted to the SPM include figures and tables to allow for a shorter report.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, noted the historic adoption of the UNFCCC’s first gender action plan, emphasizing that gender issues in the Global South are a “matter of life and death.”
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for ensuring the smooth operation of the second commitment period, to commence on 1 January 2013, as well as securing a smooth post-2012 transition for the flexibility mechanisms.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, noted the need to address revision of the NWP, transparency and MRV, and the development of standardized baselines.
Several members of the Umbrella Group noted their submission on elements of workstream 2, with the US identifying the role of non-state actors as an evolving element.
On  , Norway, with Japan, Australia, the EU and others, underscored that since capacity building is a cross-cutting issue relevant to all elements of the BAP it should be integrated throughout the text and not included in a separate section.
JAPAN and NORWAY expressed preference for a period of 8 years, while noting that this view was not fixed.
NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND urged amending the mandates of other bodies if deemed inadequate, instead of creating a new institution.
Chair Appadu said the entire text, including the conclusions that had been agreed on and further proposals from the US, EU, G-77/CHINA and AUSTRALIA, will be forwarded to SBI-21 for negotiation.
Nafie Ali Nafie, Assistant President of Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to maintain a two-track outcome under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol on the basis of comparable and ambitious emission reductions, and respect the Convention’s principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
In a paragraph on communication of the mitigation component of INDCs, Norway suggested: adding reference to unconditionality of efforts by all, while maintaining a reference to enhanced efforts by developing countries made possible with provision of support; and recognizing the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS, with the latter proposal supported by the LDCs, with some amendments.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized maintaining the balance achieved in the Paris outcome, including by identifying how the IPCC will inform the global stocktake and guidance on the accounting of financial resources.
ARGENTINA, supported by FINLAND and BENIN, said innovative approaches were needed, and called for the establishment of small task forces in the run-up to COP-6.
 Chile supported the continuance of the Dialogue in formal negotiations, parallel to the AWG, and Brazil identified a two-track process explaining that the AWG will lead to legally binding mitigation by Annex I countries.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for in-depth consideration of indicative ranges of emission reductions, including the contribution of Annex I parties.
In the contact group, Costa Rica read out a joint submission by Colombia for AILAC, Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, and Switzerland on the need for corresponding adjustments in connection with transfers of mitigation outcomes and emission reductions under Article 6.
Belize, for AOSIS, highlighted the need to limit temperature increase to below 1.5°C, stressing that 2°C is inconsistent with the Convention’s precautionary approach.
 The PHILIPPINES, BANGLADESH and others emphasized the need for consultations on finance to be open, inclusive and transparent.
Nicaragua, for SICA, said reaching an agreed outcome on all pillars of the BAP was a precondition for terminating the AWG-LCA, and noted pending issues related to, inter alia, long-term finance and shared vision.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for including short-term activities in the workplan, and for more in-session workshops.
NORWAY supported the Netherlands and commented that the IPCC was the key body for giving technical and scientific advice.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called, inter alia, for establishing a SIDS work programme, reviewing NAPAs and supporting national institutional arrangements for access to financial resources.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, proposed not limiting discussions to the draft decision forwarded from Lima.
SWITZERLAND and NORWAY highlighted the existence of due process provisions in, and the need to be consistent with, the text on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8.
CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS and others supported the development of a roster of experts.
At COP 7, amid the vacuum left by the US departure from the Kyoto Protocol, parties bent over backwards to facilitate ratifications by Canada, Japan and the Russian Federation, and lauded EU leadership.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for an omnibus decision that will include all items related to the Paris Agreement.
On Thursday, 4 December, Japan and the EU called for accelerated project registration.
On implementation of FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 with Decision 3/CP.3 and Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14, ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and ETHIOPIA, called on the SBI to identify the needs of developing countries, requesting information from SBSTA and the IPCC.
Switzerland, supported by Hungary, requested more time for regional consultations, with Switzerland noting the need for time to consider a package of candidates to be shared between Region VI and others.
SENEGAL, BHUTAN, AUSTRALIA, INDONESIA and MEXICO, opposed by the EU and CHINA, outlined arguments in favor of the Colombian proposal.
The EU, Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed satisfaction with progress on various issues but noted limited time available at this session due to the work of the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
Colombia, Argentina and others also raised issues relevant to the post-2012 period, with Argentina proposing sectoral CDM.
Most Annex I parties, as well as some Latin American ones such as Peru and Chile supported inclusion and discussion of market-based approaches.
Switzerland and Sweden, opposed by the UK, Uganda and others, said that reference to expert debate on MER versus PPP was not interesting for policymakers and proposed deleting it.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon and Mauritania urged that the text be translated into all six UN languages.
TURKEY and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said contributions could be revised on a voluntary basis.
On Saturday afternoon, after the section had been considered in its entirety, Saudi Arabia, supported by Iran and Algeria, objected to inconsistency in the treatment of oil and gas exploration and coal exploration in Volume 2, saying coal emits much more than oil and gas.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a five-year commitment period; Annex I parties moving to the top end of their pledges and beyond, and dropping their conditionalities; provisional application of the Protocol amendments to be adopted in Doha; and limiting participation in the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments under the second commitment period.
JAPAN and CHINA called for a simple process through the publication of the INDCs on the UNFCCC website, with CHINA objecting to compilation of INDCs by the Secretariat.
JAPAN reported on the Tenth Informal Meeting on Further Actions against Climate Change, co-chaired by Brazil and Japan in Tokyo, Japan, in March 2012, where expected outcomes from Doha were among the issues discussed.
 The NETHERLANDS reported on the Climate Technology Initiative  on behalf of the OECD and the EUROPEAN COMMISSION.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and SAUDI ARABIA advocated participation of ministers and heads of delegation.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group called for clarifying rules and options affecting level of ambition, including LULUCF accounting rules, length of commitment periods, the basket of gases and carryover of surplus AAUs.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, stressed that emphasis should be on country-driven strategies and the needs and priorities of developing countries.
PERU, speaking for a number of countries, with EGYPT and COLOMBIA, opposed a new classification of developing countries to assess vulnerability.
Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that developing countries that are able to provide capacity can do so voluntarily.
AUSTRALIA and CANADA suggested dealing with Article 3.3  and 3.4  as a package.
The US and EU suggested stating that progress has been made through multilateral and bilateral activities in the areas of information and methodology, vulnerability and adaptation, as well as in convening workshops and establishing the SCCF and LDC Fund.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted commonalities across proposals, such as the financial mechanism under Convention Article 11  serving as the financial mechanism of the new agreement.
TIMOR LESTE said developed countries should commit to provision of MOI to LDCs.
Japan proposed deleting text suggesting that mobilization of finance be “regularly scaled up.” The EU preferred regular “updating” rather than “upscaling.”
AOSIS called for common accounting rules for non-Annex I parties and cautioned that even if indicators presented by China, Brazil and India are achieved, their emissions will increase.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by AUSTRALIA, the EU, Costa Rica, for AILAC, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, MONGOLIA, ARGENTINA and CANADA, and opposed by Bolivia, for the LMDCs, and Maldives, for AOSIS, called for continuing work on the “rulebook” of the Paris Agreement in the second week.
The EU, supported by Saudi Arabia, requested an adjournment to allow for further consultations among the regional groups.
GUYANA and PALAU announced they have ratified the Doha Amendment and will submit their instruments of acceptance shortly.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, also preferred reference to Convention Article 3.5, which addresses trade.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by Poland, Switzerland, Central African Republic and Canada, advocated deleting the paragraph inviting Parties to consider and submit their views on the workshop, and on further action to advance work on P&amp;Ms.
South Africa, for BASIC , stated that the group would endorse the proposal with the understanding that pre-2020 issues will be given “equal preference at the next session.”
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and CANADA expressed concern with suggested mandatory language on reporting of Article 3.14 implementation.
BRAZIL, supported by CHILE, SINGAPORE, CANADA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and SOUTH AFRICA, said access rights to the Registry should be reserved for the national UNFCCC focal points.
The US, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested the possibility that NGOs submit information.
The US and UK stated that the losses noted in this study did not mean actual losses in overall revenue from the baseline year, as revenues would actually increase considerably under all three scenarios.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for completing the terms of reference  for the PCCB and for the review of the WIM in Marrakech.
In the subsection on guidelines under Article 7.1 , the US, opposed by the EU and Australia, proposed deleting the section on adjustments in accordance with Article 5.2, maintaining that reporting should be the responsibility of the review team, not the Party.
The EU highlighted work on MRV by Germany and South Africa.
Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, stressed that the second commitment period must be based on a clear, ambitious and precise set of rules to ensure environmental integrity, including rules on carry-over of surplus AAUs.
AOSIS noted that the objective should be to address the urgent and immediate needs of developing countries especially SIDS, LDCs, and African countries.
GHANA, with SINGAPORE, recommended looking at response measures in the context of NDCs to minimize adverse effects.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the group’s commitment to the fulfillment of the BAP and finding appropriate solutions to issues not addressed in Cancun.
SWITZERLAND said that, like the EU, his country would reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 unilaterally, and by 30% if other developed countries take comparable action.
NICARAGUA said the GCF should be accountable to the COP “in a real and operational sense.” BOLIVIA called for an open bidding process for selecting the trustee.
NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN urged referring to transparency of support provided and received.
The G-77/CHINA called for the will to implement "long overdue" actions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 at COP-6 and, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, and JAMAICA, called for two separate decisions.
Bulgaria said accounting for trading in projections was a problem for EIT countries, given the lack of information on the willingness of countries to engage in JI projects, and the resulting impact on emissions in EIT countries.
KUWAIT, OMAN and SAUDI ARABIA requested more time for consideration.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a procedural decision and a political declaration that urges increased ambition for new and updated NDCs submitted in 2020.
SOUTH AFRICA warned against over-consolidating the section on support, and INDIA said that central ideas that protect economic growth in developing countries should be retained in the text.
The EU, Switzerland, China and New Zealand supported noting the report.
Bahamas, for the G-77/China, called for additional support for the Fund.
On a headline sentence stating that  , the EU, with the UK, suggested referring to e2 80 9cemission reductions e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cefforts.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, suggested bracketing text in the section on finance, in particular with regard to developed country pledges for short-term financing.
Saudi Arabia and China opposed non-procedural paragraphs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported, inter alia: work under the APA until 2018, at which time CMA 1 could reconvene; and capturing progress through co-chairs’ notes rather than formal conclusions or decisions.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested text on distinguishing between ex ante and ex post review of INDCs, proposing that all parties make successive mitigation commitments.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed establishing a capacity-building committee under the Convention, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, which called for a structured assessment of capacity needs.
Following requests by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, the US and EU, informal consultations were held on the agenda of the workshop on synergies scheduled for 2-4 July 2003, in Espoo, Finland.
SWITZERLAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CHINA proposed that the COP/MOP should have a triggering role as well as the competence to decide on the findings of the compliance body.
Germany, with Cuba and Spain, called for strengthening risk assessment aspects of the reports, to pay greater attention to events with low probability or low confidence levels but high impact.
The US, EU, TUVALU, and PERU supported retention of the Principles.
PANAMA, for Central American Parties, drew attention to a new GEF regional adaptation pilot project, and URUGUAY underscored the importance of the Adaptation Fund.
On Friday, 5 June, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Monaco, Norway, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine and the United Kingdom were assessed.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged balance between the two tracks.
Urging a focus on substance and enhancing common understanding, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for more time to consider: transparency of action and support; Agreement Article 6 ; adaptation communication; and accounting under item 3 of the APA.
JAPAN, supported by NEW ZEALAND, suggested strengthening linkages with existing institutions, including the technology transfer information clearinghouse TT:CLEAR and the CTCN.
Benin and Senegal highlighted linkages between Africa’s participation in the carbon market and the role of forestry.
Lauding the closure of REDD+ items, Angola, for the LDCs, looked forward to the provision of adequate and predictable support from developed countries.
The Gambia, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , underscored the need to resolve outstanding issues to enable adoption of a second commitment period.
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the Protocol as a central part of the climate change architecture and emphasized that its institutions must be reaffirmed and strengthened the COP/MOP through ambitious emission reduction targets for the second and subsequent commitment periods, consistent with the science.
 The Czech Republic and Argentina supported negotiations on a draft protocol that should use the AOSIS protocol and the German elements paper as a starting point.
The EU also requested more budget information about the ITL, and Switzerland said resource issues would need to be considered.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN highlighted a lack of consensus on the matter, which Co-Chair Estrada said would be adequately reflected.
Costa Rica, for the G-77/CHINA, said efforts to address climate change should not be compromised by the current financial crisis.
In its opening remarks, the G-77/China said it would seek to make progress on adaptation, positive incentives for reducing deforestation, adaptation research, and the Mauritius Strategy.
On 6 November, a package deal between the EU and the Umbrella Group formed the basis for general agreement to be reached among all Parties.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, supported: an informative session on the status of the Kyoto Protocol amendment every time the ADP meets; establishment of MRV for means of implementation, and a contact group on finance.
Chile and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , stressed the need to improve coordination among the UNFCCC, ICAO, and IMO to avoid double counting and to safeguard environmental integrity.
Nauru, for AOSIS, underscored the need for data to ascertain loss and damage in SIDS due to climate change and sea-level rise.
On differentiation, Sudan, for the African Group, with Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and Bolivia, for the G-77/China, opposed text suggesting “all” parties mobilize climate finance through a diversity of actions.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, and CANADA indicated commitment to scaling up climate finance to the US$100 billion goal by 2020.
France, on behalf of the EU, suggested that UNEP and UNITAR administer and fund the programmes with oversight by the Secretariat.
On producing a list of speakers, Austria and Belgium said experts must be clear about the capacity in which they are speaking.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, for India, China, the Philippines, El Salvador, Dominica, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Argentina, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Venezuela, Malaysia, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Algeria and Iran, and China, for BASIC, underscored that the ADP is not a venue to “renegotiate, rewrite, or reinterpret” the Convention principles.
Mali, Egypt and others highlighted the need to ensure participation of developing countries.
He noted the greatest weight of opinion rested with the contact group text, which referenced the Paris Agreement but not NDCs, and proposed its acceptance, with Saudi Arabia and Egypt requesting to record their opposition in the report of IPCC-48.
On paragraphs 13-16 , ARGENTINA, Chile, for AILAC, CHINA, INDIA, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA, TANZANIA and many others emphasized the relevance of the principles and provisions of the Convention.
On the  , Brazil, for the G-77/China, supported by AOSIS and Tuvalu, called for mandatory inclusion of agreed activities to eliminate the “pick and choose nature” of current accounting and promoted a net-net accounting approach.
TUNISIA, with SENEGAL and CANADA, supported designating a climate change day.
Expressing regret for the situation, The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by Guyana, for GRULAC, the EU, the US, Australia, AOSIS and the Russian Federation, proposed that the COP Presidency preside over the ADP until matters concerning the election of its Bureau are resolved.
AUSTRALIA, with the US, supported working toward a draft decision.
 On commitments, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, ARGENTINA and CHINA called for differentiated obligations for developed and developing countries.
BELIZE, speaking for AOSIS, said these paragraphs did not address its concerns.
Later in the week, it was announced that the regional groups had nominated their candidates for the Bureau, including: India, Japan, Mauritania, Zimbabwe, the Russian Federation, Hungary, Argentina and Antigua and Barbuda, Germany, Australia and Samoa.
The Gambia, on behalf of the LDCs, urged parties to focus on technical issues, particularly for methodological issues under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US did not see a need for annexes on P&amp;Ms. CANADA favored an annex describing commitments clearly in order to facilitate their rapid adjustment.
Trinidad and Tobago recommended: "initiate a negotiating process aimed at adopting a protocol containing" specific emissions targets and concluding not later than COP-II.
CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION requested a footnote indicating their position.
The EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AOSIS, G-77/CHINA and LDCs expressed willingness to work with the draft as a starting point, though taking issue with certain parts.
AOSIS, MEXICO, and UGANDA noted that Annex I countries are not fulfilling commitments and emissions are on the rise.
The G-77/China, opposed by the EU, said inventory estimates of a year during the commitment period that had been adjusted should not be revised and that consequently, adjustments of estimates of both the base year inventory and the inventory during the commitment period could not be revised.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported the current process initiated by the minister-led informal consultations and stressed the need to find common landing ground with specific text proposals.
The EU, SOUTH AFRICA and AUSTRALIA stressed the quantifiability of NDCs.
IRAN, ALGERIA and BURKINA FASO encouraged establishing links with capacity building and UNFCCC Article 6.
The EU and SWITZERLAND underscored the relevance of CGE’s work for discussions on measuring, reporting and verifying under the AWG-LCA.
During this meeting, the US and EU requested that text on the provision of financial and technical support for the implementation of the framework through the "GEF within its mandate" be bracketed pending the outcome of the contact group on the financial mechanism.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the need to build consensus and not revisit what has already been agreed upon, and supported bringing specific issues to ministers for guidance.
Switzerland, for the EIG, NORWAY, for Australia, New Zealand, the US, Canada and Japan, the EU and MARSHALL ISLANDS, opposed by CHINA, proposed that the Secretariat prepare a technical paper compiling all the information on NAMAs submitted by developing countries.
 Nigeria, for the African Group, expressed hope that the SB 26 outcomes would form a good basis for discussions in Bali, and urged progress on the Adaptation Fund, and capacity building, noting that Africa is the most vulnerable continent to climate change.
AOSIS called for a specific programme for SIDS, consistent with the Mauritius Strategy.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, supported the elimination of the clusters on national schedules and the new sub-section for MRV, explaining that they contain ideas not pertinent to sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP.
Malaysia and the Environmental Integrity Group emphasized the importance of technology, finance and capacity building.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted linkages with other issues, including transparency and the global stocktake, and called for examining definitions.
South Africa, with Colombia, Grenada, for AOSIS, Australia, Spain, for the EU, Jamaica, Bolivia, Nigeria, Guatemala, and Papua New Guinea, regretted the lack of an outcome on this item and supported further discussions at SBSTA 33.
Noting the decision taken to maintain a 5-7 year cycle for the AR6, Canada, supported by Germany, the US, Norway and Ethiopia, opposed specifying an end date and suggested that the term of the Bureau not be longer than seven years.
VENEZUELA, supported by Angola, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested eliminating all content that is being discussed under the Montreal Protocol or the Kyoto Protocol, such as new gases.
In the first meeting of the contact group, Co-Chair Rosland, supported by the EU, Canada and Japan, and opposed by the G-77/China, proposed removing all brackets in the draft negotiating text forwarded from SBSTA-20 and deleting the option on the common reporting format referring to Protocol Article 6.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for adoption of a draft negotiating text for the 2015 agreement, an ADP decision on INDCs that is balanced across elements, and an agreement on a pre-2020 workplan to close the mitigation gap.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a shift to practical implementation of adaptation activities, and highlighted the need for early warning systems, vulnerability mapping and information exchange.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed that the outcome from Bangkok should identify the key issues needed in an agreed outcome in Copenhagen.
 China, Germany, Sweden and others expressed concern over a sentence discussing carbon leakage outside the EU as a result of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme , with the US noting potential confusion of policymakers not familiar with the EU ETS.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, encouraged parties to observe the principles of good faith, transparency, inclusivity and openness, as well as an absolute commitment to the process.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported a legally-binding outcome agreed by political leaders in Copenhagen and urged the conclusion of negotiations on both tracks ahead of the high-level segment.
China suggested deleting item 4 and amending item 3 to “planning of the work on mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, transparency of action and support, and capacity building.” Singapore cautioned against listing specific issues to avoid potential exclusion of those not listed.
Nepal, for the LDCs, called for strong representation of LDCs and SIDS on the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for the adoption of a decision on a second commitment period from 2013-2017 at COP 17, and for the establishment, in Bangkok, of a group to address the legal issues raised by the impending end of the first commitment period, and to consider options to create continuity with a second commitment period.
BRAZIL and INDIA also said that food security and poverty eradication are important elements that should remain, and, with CHINA, called for specifying that poverty eradication relates to developing countries.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, highlighted duplication in paragraphs relating to planning and said some of the level of detail might be too prescriptive.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , called for the agreement to establish, inter alia, medium- and long-term emission reduction pathways capable of delivering less than 1.5 c2 b0C of warming.
Canada and Norway emphasized that the verification and certification guidelines should provide for individual project circumstances.
JAMAICA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and the LDCs emphasized the need for durability in the agreement on matters relating to vulnerable countries.
Bolivia, supported by Colombia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, proposed maintaining temporary credits for forests that are intact and monitored.
 Tanzania, on behalf of the G-77/China, along with the US and Romania, speaking for the economies in transition, expressed concerns at insufficient information provided for the comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity building in developing countries, and for the compilation and synthesis of capacity-building activities in economies in transition .
On the supplementary provisional agenda , the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with BELARUS and UKRAINE, highlighted a proposal to introduce an additional item on procedural and legal issues relating to decision-making by the COP and CMP, in response “to deficiencies in the UNFCCC’s application of UN system rules of procedures, norms and principles.”
BRAZIL said this work could inform the post-2012 process, while the US stated that commitments should not be based on historical responsibility.
Bolivia, India and others proposed increasing the scope of TEM topics, with Bolivia suggesting a focus on technology knowledge systems and practices of indigenous peoples and local communities.
Papua New Guinea, for the Coalition of Rainforest Nations, emphasized the role of REDD+ and, with Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America , stressed continuation of the Kyoto Protocol, and underscored that the run-up to Durban is the last chance to avoid gaps between commitment periods.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged achievement of milestones in Cancun, through a set of decisions that adequately address all elements of the BAP, which must eventually lead to a legally-binding agreement.
Norway and Pakistan said fighting over the agenda is not helpful, and noted it is imperative to make progress on the AWG-LCA work.
India, Nigeria, Tanzania and others stressed the importance of accessibility and outreach.
NORWAY and the EU opposed, saying the content and context of the paragraphs are different.
CHINA and INDIA proposed deleting clusters on national schedules and the sub-section on MRV.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called on parties to avoid duplication of efforts and focus on a streamlined, targeted agenda.
Japan, Canada and Norway called for joint informal discussions, highlighting the need to engage with the US, while Brazil and India said that delegations have members in both AWGs and can coordinate positions without having joint sessions.
CANADA noted that his country 92s adaptation support prioritizes LDCs.
South Africa, and others, opposed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and United Arab Emirates, expressed support for the text.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, warned against transferring issues from the AWG-LCA to the Subsidiary Bodies and said specific issues mandated for consideration by the SBI in Decision 1/CP.16 must feed into a balanced outcome from the AWG-LCA.
Colombia, with Uruguay, Bolivia and Chile, called for small-scale sinks projects.
Mexico suggested the development of assessment criteria, and, opposed by Uganda, suggested a step-by-step process for identifying spillover effects.
Bolivia, supported by AOSIS, stressed the need for a top-down approach through the establishment of an aggregate emission reduction range based on best available science and then allocating individual targets based on a variety of factors including capability, with Bolivia highlighting historical responsibility as an important factor.
Angola, for the LDCs, looked forward to engaging in “the work that remains to be done on the draft text in addition to some political decision making.” TURKEY stressed “making this an inclusive agreement where no country is left behind.”
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, noted that a second commitment period under the AWG-KP is “fundamental,” reiterating that efforts to impede agreement will be detrimental to developing countries.
CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL, the EU and others, suggested moving into informal consultations.
The US, for the Umbrella Group, underlined that the momentum behind the Paris Agreement “cannot and will not be stopped,” highlighting responding markets and financial flows because this “makes sense for sustainable economic development” and stressing that the private sector, non-state parties, civil society and indigenous peoples “all will drive the shift to solutions.”
On JI, the US and AUSTRALIA urged inclusion of the CDM text on baselines and additionality.
The EU, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Switzerland and the Russian Federation expressed preference for making use of existing channels, while Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and China supported establishing a new forum for exchanging information and facilitating dialogue.
NEW ZEALAND and INDIA expressed concern that averaging over a commitment period does not reflect long-term forestry cycles.
CHINA and BRAZIL highlighted that in developing countries, MRV should take place nationally.
Argentina, as the host of COP-4, has an obligation to work for consensus and is in the process of consulting with all regional groups, particularly the G-77/China and GRULAC.
Canada, with the EU and US, opposed text inviting the SBI to provide guidance to the financial mechanism in relation to decision 5/CP.5  and 5/ CP.7 .
Brazil, South Africa, Bolivia and others proposed no credits for new facilities and crediting only existing production capacity.
The LDCs said the new mechanism must provide easy access for LDCs.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, emphasized the centrality of the UNFCCC framework and highlighted the need for renewed trust-building among parties.
The EU said the fact that large portions of the text, including on new market mechanisms and consequential Protocol amendments, have not yet been discussed was “very, very worrying.” AOSIS supported discussions of the text on consequential Protocol amendments.
On the  Australia, Japan, Austria, Senegal, Chad, Canada, Singapore, Iran, Indonesia, Norway, Russian Federation and Venezuela, among others, supported an SR in this area.
The EU, supported by Japan, Canada, Malaysia, AOSIS, Norway, Switzerland and Australia, but opposed by Saudi Arabia, suggested holding a workshop on the implications of the TAR for the work of the SBSTA.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern at the “insistence” of Annex I parties on a single outcome in Copenhagen and urged parties to build on the Protocol’s success by establishing more ambitious targets for the second commitment period, as well as developing the means to address the potential consequences of Annex I parties’ policies and measures on developing countries.
Australia emphasized that budget priorities need to be clarified, and, with Brazil, China, the EU, Japan, Norway, and the Russian Federation, said the budget increase is too high.
NEW ZEALAND supported this, while the US opposed it.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed satisfaction with APA discussions on NDCs and adaptation communication, on which he noted the need to retain a common set of elements.
The EU and Norway supported inclusion of hydrofluorocarbons  and perfluorocarbons , and the Russian Federation cautioned against inclusion of insignificant gases.
NORWAY asked if the proposed MTAF would meet the need of LDCs and SIDS or whether they would need additional measures.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the agreement to address the gaps in the current climate finance architecture.
Algeria, for the African Group, said sectoral approaches were best applied at the national level and, regarding the aviation sector, said additional constraints or incremental costs should not be imposed on developing countries.
In his opening statement, Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China , called for specific proposals on the scale of financing, lamenting that the emphasis had been on shifting financing responsibilities from developed countries to the private sector and developing countries.
The Dominican Republic, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, said closing the ambition gap requires a REDD+ mechanism in the future climate regime.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the US said adaptation and mitigation could be considered as separate agenda items.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged for ambitious emission reduction commitments from Annex I parties and called for avoiding a gap between the first and second commitment periods.
Regarding a proposal that the Secretariat’s technical paper be reported to the SBSTA and that discussions continue in that body, BRAZIL and INDIA opposed merging AWG-LCA and SBSTA work.
Switzerland, for the EIG, underlined that a technical mode is a fundamental underpinning to the text-based discussions in 2018.
On a paragraph on updating the synthesis report on the aggregate effect of INDCs, parties engaged in a long discussion on text requesting the Secretariat to “provide information on the fairness and ambition of the INDCs communicated by parties.” Malaysia for the Like-Minded Developing Countries , India, Saudi Arabia for the Arab Group, and the Russian Federation, among others, called for deleting the text.
  Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Spain and the US presented.
This includes Japan and the fifteen member States of the European Union, which recently delivered their instruments of ratification to the UN.
JAPAN, supported by the US, proposed a separate informal session to discuss the revised guidelines.
On ratification of the Protocol, NEW ZEALAND announced its intention to ratify in time for the WSSD, adding that it was currently the only Umbrella Group Party to have made such a commitment, although he predicted that it "will be in good company before too long."
On a sentence stating that the RCPs include a mitigation scenario leading to a very low forcing level , two stabilization scenarios , and a scenario with very high GHG emissions , Canada, supported by Finland, Saint Lucia and the UK, proposed simplifying language by referring to e2 80 9ca stringent mitigation scenario e2 80 9d and e2 80 9ctwo intermediate scenarios.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to ensure that “no one is left behind,” while noting implementation of the Paris Agreement only applies to parties that have ratified it.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and ETHIOPIA expressed interest in multiplication of factors.
The EU, SAUDI ARABIA, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN expressed regret that agreement had not been reached.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the US, said that UNFCCC issues should take priority over Protocol issues.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, supported by BRAZIL, BARBADOS and TUVALU, said the draft decision would lead to special dispensations prior to the Kyoto Protocol\'s entry into force and could create an incentive for emissions increases in Annex I countries.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of CARICOM and HAITI, said BAHAMAS will sign the Protocol this week.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: additional resources for the LDC Expert Group ; replenishing the LDCF; and enhancing access to the GCF.
On further technical work, a point of order was raised by Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by INDIA, and opposed by COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, the EU and the US, that undertaking informal consultations on ways to have further informal discussions after the closing of the APA plenary was not within the contact group’s mandate.
Japan, Australia, New Zealand and others supported considering proposed new mechanisms, but also underscored the importance of discussions on the existing mechanisms.
The EU and Saudi Arabia objected to a reference to an “equation” to express linkage between policies and measures and QELROs.
Tuvalu, supported by Grenada, Kiribati, El Salvador, Costa Rica, the Cook Islands, the Marshall Islands, Palau and Belize, stressed the importance of the issue, urged its proper substantive consideration through a contact group and said delaying the issue until Saturday would not allow this.
WG III Co-Chair Davidson stressed that quality is a given parameter, and, with the UK and BRAZIL, emphasized the importance of completing the report by COP-13 for its findings to reach policymakers.
The US, supported by Canada and Australia, proposed organizing workshops instead of a negotiating session.
Egypt, with Brazil, Saudi Arabia, and Ecuador, objected to referring to social, institutional, and economic barriers as those that “may” inhibit avenues towards an urban and infrastructure system transition, saying it was not reflective of the great challenges facing developing countries.
NORWAY, ICELAND, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND, UGANDA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION agreed that a workshop to explore options would be useful.
On topics for the TEMs, Switzerland, Australia, Norway and New Zealand said the TEMs should focus on enhancing mitigation ambition of all parties.
In addition, the EU, opposed by CANADA and SAMOA, proposed the insertion of additionality to be considered under methodologies and guidelines.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, commended the COP 22 presidency for “leading complex negotiations towards satisfactory results, both for all parties and for the implementation of the Paris Agreement.”
The group has agreed that: in paragraph 9, "geographical distribution" will not be placed in brackets, but a footnote denoting that this represents the G-77/China view will be included; the proposal by the US to designate half the members for Annex I Parties and half for non-Annex I Parties will be placed in brackets with a similar footnote denoting that it represents the view expressed by some Parties.
Climate Action Network called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed language on monitoring of emissions of legal entities and/or projects under Articles 6 and 17.
Several delegations, including the EU and VENEZUELA, called for analysis of socio-economic impacts of different limitation proposals.
The G-77/CHINA, EU and SAUDI ARABIA presented their respective positions on some of the issues, highlighting the agreement reached on elements of the "crunch issues," as well as noting the elements they felt were missing from President Pronk ef bf bds informal note.
Saudi Arabia, China, the Philippines and the African Group drew attention to Decision 2/CP.17, which stipulates that parties will continue working on the scope of the Review and consider its further definition.
ICELAND, with NORWAY and the EU, stressed a forward-looking perspective and gender balance.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called on all Annex I parties to work towards the same goal.
Norway and Malaysia preferred two technical summaries, one for each part or volume.
The COP agreed to hold in abeyance the sub-items on proposals from the Russian Federation and from Papua New Guinea and Mexico and an item on the second review of the adequacy of Convention Article 4.2 .
Bolivia, with Nicaragua, restated their objection to accepting 2 c2 b0C over the 1.5 c2 b0C goal.
Guatemala, for the countries comprising the Central American Integration System , with, the Gambia, for the LDCs, said it is essential to reach agreement on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
  SAUDI ARABIA stressed the workshop’s informal nature and CHINA said there should be no follow up.
Observing that “tonight God has been very close to Mexico,” India noted that a balanced agreement has been crafted and a process has been launched that bridges the trust deficiency.
Tanzania, Ecuador, and Brazil questioned the example of intensive agriculture in a sentence highlighting poor adaptation efforts and their effects, while El Salvador queried text describing the negative impacts of urban infrastructure.
MOROCCO, for the G-77/CHINA, said adaptation and mitigation measures will be unsuccessful if developed countries ignore the concerns and situation of vulnerable States.
On possible elements for the provisional COP 11 agenda, Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked that the agenda reflects that an item on UNFCCC Article 4.8  is part of a review process and that an item on capacity building be added.
Opposing the establishment of a spin-off group on adaptation, Switzerland, Norway, the EU and other developed countries pointed to progress and current work under other bodies on, inter alia, the Adaptation Committee, and loss and damage.
Opposing Canada 92s SBSTA-16 proposal to change the baseline from 1989, the EU stressed its support for definitions set out in the Marrakesh Accords.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for ensuring the smooth operation of the second commitment period, to commence on 1 January 2013, as well as securing a smooth post-2012 transition for the flexibility mechanisms.
 On future plans, GERMANY hoped the EU would reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, and said it would be willing to cut its own emissions by 40% by that time.
Egypt, for the African Group, suggested highlighting that the GCF is “an institution to stay.” The Like-Minded Developing Countries  sought for ways to help the GCF Board with transforming the pledges made by countries into finalized support.
The EU and Tuvalu noted gaps in existing data, and stressed data as a crucial input to the negotiating process.
ARGENTINA, supported by AOSIS, the LDCs, KENYA, COLOMBIA, and NAMIBIA, stressed the urgency of the Co-Chairs preparing a draft conclusion.
The US did not see annex-based differentiation as a path to the new agreement and, with JAPAN, opposed e2 80 9cbifurcated language.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said transparency measures should include a comparable and complete accounting system for support provided and received.
The EU, South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Pakistan supported AOSIS’ proposal.
Many others, including the Netherlands, Uganda and Nigeria, emphasized the need to ensure the appropriate dissemination of IPCC materials in developing countries, including paper copies of documents.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by INDIA, cautioned against “cherry picking” individual findings.
China, with Saudi Arabia, suggested using approved language from WGI SPM instead, which states that any given level of warming is associated with a range of cumulative CO2 emissions, and, for example, higher emissions in earlier decades imply lower emissions later.
In a similar vein, the Netherlands and Germany requested a funding timeline to ensure “Plan B” options could be drawn on to ensure the continuation of indispensable activities if the IPCC is unable to extricate itself from its financial troubles.
The US, the EU, CANADA, JAPAN, NORWAY and others, objected to the insertion of certain titles in the paper, while ARGENTINA, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA supported retaining the titles.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern at a lack of inclusivity, transparency, and time to participate in negotiations on matters relating to LDCs and regretted that text in the draft conclusions was not discussed in negotiations.
With JORDAN, EL SALVADOR and CHINA, he said TEMs should focus on mitigation and adaption opportunities.
Saudi Arabia emphasized the need for balanced funding in the biennial budget for items such as workshops, while the US requested more detail on the Secretariat 92s budget and expressed concern over the proposed apportionment between UNFCCC and Protocol activities.
Several developing countries urged a more action-oriented approach while the US and Australia stressed the need to focus on the most critical points.
Saudi Arabia stated that there was no need for a new regime and argued that Annex I countries were preoccupied with an economic agenda, citing the EU’s bid to control the carbon market.
Many delegates, including Jamaica, the Philippines, Ireland, Senegal, Austria, Trinidad and Tobago, the Maldives, Hungary, Chad, Australia, Sudan, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and Canada, supported the task group, citing the essential role of the IPCC in supporting the UNFCCC.
EGYPT reserved the right to consult within the G-77/China, which will provide a joint statement.
New Zealand, opposed by Saudi Arabia, urged parties to accept a paragraph on the revised scale of contributions for 2016-2017, given that the Secretariat would otherwise lack sufficient funding for the 2017 programme of work.
The LDCs, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the African Group and Bangladesh, emphasized that the special circumstances of African countries and the LDCs are referenced in the Convention and stressed the importance of reflecting this in the text.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern around linking this item to the ADP, with SINGAPORE suggesting the draft decision would focus on pre-2020 measures.
The US, the EU and AUSTRALIA said the uncertainties regarding the impact of response measures are greater.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, said it was waiting for outcomes from the group on LULUCF under the CDM.
On the outcome, Maldives, for AOSIS, and others called for setting a workplan through 2018.
Emphasizing the need to address a variety of actions by all parties in the 2015 agreement, the EU, Switzerland and the US opposed language applying only to developed countries.
The contact group considered the Co-Chairs 92 proposal for a draft decision on capacity building that was based on a G-77/China proposal and incorporated submissions from the EU and other Annex I Parties.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, reaffirmed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, calling for a higher level of ambition by Annex I parties.
New Zealand observed the structure of the section could be clarified, and noted, with the EU, the link between the sections on time frames and mitigation.
The Philippines, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, called on developed country parties to commit to QELROs to reduce emissions by at least 40-50% below 1990 levels by 2020, and at least 25-40% by 2017.
Austria asked where benefits would occur above 3 b0C, and text on costs and benefits was modified to reflect US and Austria 92s concerns.
Bhutan, for the LDCs, called for reviews to take place at least once in every five-year cycle.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND opposed a e2 80 9cbifurcated e2 80 9d approach.
Bolivia said strong IPRs increase cost of research and development, and India, with the Philippines, suggested compulsory licensing.
Switzerland underlined the importance of scientific integrity in the communication of the IPCC’s work, which often means “sticking literally to what has been said.” Australia proposed that a strategy should be forward-looking and contain a clear set of communications objectives: what to communicate, to whom and how.
On measures to facilitate small-scale A&amp;R CDM project activities, PERU, supported by BOLIVIA, CHILE, SENEGAL, COLOMBIA, and COSTA RICA, proposed draft text for the decision that, inter alia: encourages host Parties to put in place measures at the national and sub-national levels, such as linking small-scale A&amp;R project activities to their sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies; requests financial and technical resources to assist developing country Parties in the areas set out in the decision ef bf bds annex to support project implementation; and urges the operating entity of the financial mechanism to adopt a streamlined and expedited procedure in financing activities for this purpose.
Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested that: co-facilitators use different approaches given the differences in the substantive issues; and co-chairs ensure a comparable treatment and progress in all areas, and capture progress in a reflection note with summaries by co-facilitators attached.
The EU, South Africa for the African Group, and Pakistan supported the AOSIS proposal.
SAUDI ARABIA, OMAN, KUWAIT, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES , VENEZUELA, IRAN, NIGERIA and AUSTRALIA thought it would be premature to make recommendations, citing a lack of certainty in the SAR data.
On a paragraph addressing the review of the guidelines in decision 15/CMP.1, NEW ZEALAND and the EU expressed concern about duplication of work with the existing review process.
The US, opposed by GERMANY and AUSTRIA, called for removal of the reference to leakage from the transport of carbon dioxide as a factor in the net reduction of emissions through CCS, given the minor impact of leakage.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the focus must shift to doing “more, faster, now” and the Maldives, for AOSIS, called for focus on urgent action, highlighting renewable energy in SIDS.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, preferred convening a separate contact group to consider the LDC Fund and related matters.
The EU, VISEGRAD GROUP, and numerous others supported ratification and entry into force of the Protocol in 2002.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, emphasized the need for comprehensive, coherent and balanced progress.
China said reference to Convention Article 7.2 is not appropriate since it concerns measures “adopted by parties.” Venezuela and Bolivia also opposed referencing Convention Article 7.2.
Mozambique said LDCs with limited private sectors need capacity building to participate in the technology-transfer process.
 Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said any future reporting framework must reflect differing national circumstances, taking into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and that enhanced reporting requirements would necessitate increased funding.
On election of officers other than President, delegates elected Bakary Kante SENEGAL) SBI Chair, a representative of IRAN SBI Vice Chair, George Manful , T. Gzirishvili , Anthony Clarke , Cornelia Quennet- Thielen , Sergio Selaya Bonilla , Luis Herrera , Kok Kee Chow  and Espen Ronneberg , Vice Presidents, and Maciej Sadowski  Rapporteur.
SAUDI ARABIA, with VENEZUELA and BRAZIL, stressed the need to retain text stating, inter alia, that developed countries shall not resort to unilateral measures, including countervailing border measures on developing country imports.
Among key elements to consider in a draft text, Mexico, for the EIG, highlighted: a flexible combination of sources, including markets; and ensuring equal distribution and the participation of relevant stakeholders.
EIG, the EU, and the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested more complex tasks be given more time.
China, Saudi Arabia, Trinidad and Tobago, and Kuwait said their staffs were limited and meetings in conjunction with the COP would allow for better use of resources.
 Numerous parties urged a stronger focus on adaptation and the AFRICA GROUP and SAUDI ARABIA expressed disappointment at slow progress on technology transfer.
Work Plan up to COP-6: On a possible work plan up to COP-6, the EU and the US sought intensification of the process, in particular through technical workshops.
On   under the CDM, Japan, China, Kuwait, India, Brazil and others did not support the development of such factors and preferred the option “no decision.” China and Brazil stressed the subjective nature of such factors and Kuwait, Japan, Saudi Arabia and others highlighted the need to avoid complexity.
On  , Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed supporting improved quality of information over time, calling for full operationalization of capacity building for transparency.
BANGLADESH, BURKINA FASO and the SUDAN stressed the need for early warning systems and disaster preparedness.
Brazil underscored the importance of additionality and said standardized baselines would change the CDM’s nature, while Papua New Guinea said they would be compatible with the current definition and make the CDM more efficient and objective.
On rules and modalities, the EU, with New Zealand, suggested that the new agreement contain high-level MRV and accounting principles, with guidelines and modalities elaborated in COP decisions.
SAUDI ARABIA said he would provide a new proposal for the preamble to the draft decision at the next meeting, after consulting with the G-77/China.
Colombia, for AILAC, NORWAY and CANADA specified that countries that do not ratify the agreement should not take part in decision making under the governing body.
Japan and the Russian Federation emphasized that QELROs should be seen in the broader context of a comprehensive agreement.
 In SBSTA Plenary on Friday, 7 June, the EU, Switzerland, Tuvalu, and Norway proposed inviting the Secretariat to explore methodological issues relating to emissions from international transport, and report results to SB-17.
With the US, she underlined the need for certainty and due process, and, with the Russian Federation, opposed the EU proposal for a powerful Chair.
Nauru, for AOSIS, and CHILE supported starting negotiations based on the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decision.
On elements, Singapore, for the G-77/China, stressed that they should be outlined along the lines of the “shalls” and “shoulds” of Paris Agreement Article 13 .
MEXICO, CHINA and TURKEY highlighted the need for a financial mechanism for development and transfer of technologies.
BOLIVIA, supported by the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, said funding in the range of US$10 billion per year is insufficient.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Uganda, for LDCs, CHINA, BRAZIL and others stressed the importance of the means of implementation.
CHINA opposed introducing new issues and concepts such as sectoral approaches and, with BRAZIL, urged focusing on enhancing the implementation of the Convention.
The US and EU highlighted the value of increased transparency on NAMAs, through expressing the underlying assumptions, such as GDP growth and baseline emissions.
On paragraph 4, Brazil, for BRAZIL, ARGENTINA, and URUGUAY, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Iran, for the LMDCs, the EU, Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, and INDONESIA, supported annexing the informal notes to the conclusions.
Many, including the African Group, Guyana, the Coalition for Rainforest Nations , India, Fiji, Indonesia, Brazil and China, stressed that additional guidance on safeguards is premature.
CANADA, with the EU and US, opposed text inviting the SBI to provide guidance to the financial mechanism in relation to decision 5/CP.5  and 5/CP.7 .
Seesink underscored that discussions had reflected this complexity, and Trinidad and Tobago emphasized that their EIA process includes the impacts of the project on the environment and, vice versa, stressing the necessity of incorporating risk assessment of climate change impacts into project planning.
Parties then proceeded to discuss four proposals on institutional arrangements from the G-77/China, the Republic of Korea, the EU, and a joint proposal by the US, Japan and Canada.
On the modalities of operation, the G-77/China, opposed by Canada, questioned whether Parties could transfer PAAs that remained unused because of factors other than P&amp;Ms, such as economic recession.
Saudi Arabia, with the US, preferred instead to address energy efficiency in a separate report, and emphasized cost-effectiveness and environmental impact.
Australia, the US, Japan, Switzerland, and New Zealand expressed concern with this objection.
Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Bolivia reiterated their reservations concerning the WGIII report.
With AOSIS, JAPAN, the US and AUSTRALIA, he sought clarification of IPCC terms and definitions of afforestation, reforestation and deforestation.
CHINA emphasized that only “very limited” amendments to the Protocol were needed, while JAPAN stressed that an effective outcome requires combining results from the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and proposed adopting a new protocol.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the US said the agreement should be primarily facilitative, while BOLIVIA suggested a tribunal.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a new and effective global climate regime and a conversation on the contribution of the Kyoto Protocol to that system.
The EU suggested conceptual discussions for the global stocktake, and JAPAN said work on transparency and accounting guidance required rapid progress.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment that parties were not able to recognize the SED report findings and called for an outcome on the 2013-2015 review in Paris that will serve as important input for the work of the ADP.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for “breaking the deadlocks in time” for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, including ambitious emission reduction targets.
On transparency of support, Kenya supported a review mechanism, and Mexico called for robust MRV.
VENEZUELA, with Angola, for the AFRICAN GROUP, drew attention to the option of not taking any decision on market approaches, while the US stressed the centrality of market approaches.
The G-77/CHINA denounced the “heinous” abuse of the Saudi nameplate and proposed suspending these organizations.
India, supported by Egypt, said that the Protocol process should take precedence and that the reports from the “friends of the chair” group should go through the COP/MOP or COP before being forwarded to Heads of State.
Guyana and Palau announced that they ratified the Doha Amendment and will submit their instruments of acceptance shortly.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged progress on adaptation, finance, and transparency, including through addressing linkages with other items.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO supported China and proposed references to the AOSIS statement throughout the report.
TONGA, for AOSIS, noted that small island developing states are among those hardest hit by climate change.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for assessing the need for an intersessional meeting to ensure a balanced treatment of all issues.
Parties agreed to three spin-off groups: clarifying provisions on non-market-based mechanisms, led by Bolivia; addressing how differentiation could be formulated under individual efforts, led by South Africa; and narrowing the joint implementation concept, led by Brazil.
  was supported by Australia, Saudi Arabia and others, but opposed by Brazil, Ethiopia, Grenada and others.
The US and NEW ZEALAND highlighted the important role of the private sector in ensuring the Fund functions.
The Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized that the Adaption Committee should be the lead body on adaptation under the new protocol.
On the second review of the adequacy of Article 4.2  and , VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA and supported by TOGO, said that: COP-4\'s second review must respect the FCCC mandate, as set out in Article 2; COP-4\'s review must not be distracted by extraneous consideration of new commitments for non-Annex I Parties; COP-4 should convene the next review at the same time as the review at COP/MOP-2 in accordance with Article 9.2 of the Protocol; and subsequent reviews should take place in the year preceding the termination of successive Protocol commitment periods.
When considering the Draft Guidance on Methodologies for Adjustments, the EU, with SWITZERLAND and SLOVAKIA, said the trial period on inventory review would provide the IPCC with the information on problems to be addressed.
Regarding text on approaches to loss and damage, NORWAY, supported by the COOK ISLANDS, said slow onset events should be included, without mentioning sectoral specifics.
Haiti, supported by the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Saint Lucia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, and Trinidad and Tobago, opposed reference to the “benefits” of keeping to a 1.5oC scenario, preferring not to characterize 1.5oC pathways as “beneficial” lest that confuse policymakers.
On anchoring institutions, the US, AILAC, AUSTRALIA and others preferred identifying existing institutions that would serve the new agreement on a case-by-case basis in the relevant sections.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for agreement on addressing the impacts of climate change on agriculture.
Guyana, with Cambodia, the African Group and Tanzania, underscored the need for sustained and predictable funding.
Many countries, including Malawi, for the LDCs, NEW ZEALAND and the US, supported recognizing the specific circumstances of SIDS and LDCs, including through direct access and readiness support.
 CHINA, IRAN and MOROCCO, on behalf of the African Group, requested clarification on the division of tasks between non-groups and asked whether the non-groups would address P&amp;Ms and QELROs.
Parties noted that the quantitative implications of the surplus from the first commitment period were significant, but also limited to few parties, namely the EU, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested amalgamating text relating to issuers and users of ITMOs.
The AFRICAN GROUP outlined concerns with a sole focus on adaptation integration into planning, and, with BRAZIL, differentiated between short- and long-term needs.
The EU and Japan announced their Protocol ratifications just prior to the WSSD.
 Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Micronesia, Norway, Mauritius, Solomon Islands and Cuba preferred Alternative A, provided that paragraph  is deleted, and that protocols are considered matters of substance, which will be adopted by consensus or, as a last resort, a 2/3 majority vote.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, the EU, NORWAY and others, proposed creating a separate sub-group on proposals relating to common mitigation elements.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA, BRAZIL, CHINA, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, INDONESIA and AOSIS, objected to discussing evolution of commitments.
Some parties, opposed by Brazil and Argentina, suggested addressing international drivers in the draft text.
The Maldives, Singapore, Senegal and many others also welcomed the balanced package.
However, Brazil and India called for careful consideration of assumptions underlying scientific arguments.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested a capacity-building institute and earmarking GCF funds for capacity building.
Nauru, for AOSIS, announced plans to make a submission on upscaling action on renewable energy and energy efficiency in developed and developing countries.
AOSIS, supported by BRAZIL, ARGENTINA and others, highlighted several fundamental questions relating to CCS.
He noted that the EU has adopted a common position and explained that a greenhouse gas emission reduction of 30% for Luxembourg and 25% for Germany, could be offset by Portugal’s and Greece’s respective greenhouse gas emission increase of 30% and 40%, which account for differences in starting points.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, supported a role for the FCCC Secretariat.
 This gathering of ministers from the BASIC group  was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 25-26 July.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, requested time to consider the text, and the meeting was adjourned.
 France, supported by the Philippines, Colombia, South Africa and others, called for the establishment of a small working group to address this issue.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, underscored that the fourth review should be a full review of the financial mechanism and not just a review of the operating entity.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for concrete figures from developed countries to finance adaptation programmes.
Spain, for the EU, highlighted the need to make progress on technical issues in order to guarantee the environmental integrity of the outcome in Cancún.
On upfront information for INDCs, Trinidad and Tobago suggested removing references to “equitable” from the text.
CANADA introduced draft decision text supported by NEW ZEALAND, POLAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SLOVENIA, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA for the G-77/ CHINA, SWITZERLAND, and the US.
NIGERIA sought elaboration of the EU position on the question of enforcement and, in particular, on the nature of consequences and how they relate to Article 18 .
AOSIS, PANAMA and SAMOA called for strengthening adaptation.
The EU and UMBRELLA GROUP supported the proposal to focus on linkages across several APA agenda items.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called on developed countries to increase their pre-2020 mitigation and mobilization efforts and said the transparency framework should emphasize transparency of support.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the need to enhance pre-2020 action, particularly given the low level of ambition in parties’ INDCs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized that, in contrast to COP 15 in Copenhagen, “we now have a strong basis for negotiations developed by all parties together” with a text that reflects important political positions that need to be resolved.
Malawi, for the LDCs, called for inclusion of grant-based investments.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for a “solid and strong” definition of comparability, highlighting the Protocol as the basis for comparability assessment and identifying the need to define comparability through international negotiations rather than nationally.
Responding to a request by the US to provide clarification on proposed mechanisms for support activities, the G-77/CHINA underscored that the nature of the mechanisms depends on progress on other areas of the AWG-LCA’s negotiating text.
Welcoming the fruitful discussion on what is needed, JAPAN called for addressing “the how.” The US noted the text on MRV and capacity building lacks operationality.
 Consistent with their initial statements to plenary, AOSIS, China and others expressed concern that the programme of work as it stood added little to work already underway, and called for practical and substantial outputs, while the US emphasized the need for stocktaking.
Informal consultations will also be held on a joint proposal from Cyprus and the EU to amend Annex I to the Convention to include Cyprus.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, emphasized the central importance of adaptation.
 The EU, CANADA and others said deforestation should be part of the framework addressing climate change post-2012.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA, PERU and PANAMA, stressed the need for actual transfer of technology in addition to information.
The EU and Japan did not agree with this position.
The EU stated its willingness to discuss the general framework and bunker fuels and, supported by CHINA, opposed moving this area of work under the SBSTA.
In contrast, Mali, Bolivia and Benin preferred mandatory contributions.
The EU, TUVALU and others preferred not to limit the Chair’s paper to the work of this session.
This was reiterated by Nigeria, Egypt, Ghana and many other developing countries.
Regarding reporting on the effectiveness and sustainability of capacity building programmes, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, opposed reference to national communications.
COSTA RICA and INDONESIA highlighted the role of ecosystem services in adaptation.
France, for the EU, said the fight against climate change cannot wait for a recovery from the economic recession and stressed that the EU’s goals are clear even if internal debate is taking place on legislation to implement the 20% reduction target for 2020.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over slow progress under the AWG-KP, lamenting delay in adopting conclusions on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual emission reductions.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, the EU and US supported the revised conclusions, arguing that they provided a balanced compromise.
During the AWG-KP’s stocktaking plenary on the first Friday, a developing country delegate indicated that developed and developing countries are “stuck in a place where they just can’t bridge the gap.” Nevertheless, there were some positive developments in Bangkok in terms of new and more ambitious pledges from Annex I parties, including by Japan and Norway.
 The PHILIPPINES, supported by ETHIOPIA, said that since developing countries numbered over 130, additional space should be provided for developing country experts.
The EU, opposed by China, supported a role for the Secretariat.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, inter alia: recalled the need to operationalize ICA in a non-intrusive and non-punitive manner that respects sovereignty; welcomed the constructive work under the forum on response measures; expressed support for progress on the work programme on loss and damage; and expressed concern over the diminishing resources for the Adaptation Fund due to the low market prices of Certified Emission Reductions, affecting the balance of adaptation and mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, the EU, JAPAN, SAMOA, and US, requested that text referring to information sharing at side events be deleted.
MEXICO, supported by the US and opposed by CHINA, proposed beginning work in a single contact group without adopting the agenda.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the EU, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said their statements would be uploaded to the UNFCCC website.
The Philippines underscored strengthening data collection and recovery mechanisms, and the Russian Federation proposed making reference not only to data access but also data preparation.
 The Chair said that this final point must be made with the utmost clarity to the SBI and called upon Costa Rica, as Chair of the G-77/China, to raise it.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said they are more concerned with full implementation of the Convention than with reviewing the adequacy of commitments.
Maldives, for ALLIANCE OF SMALL OF ISLAND STATES , and Honduras, for the CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM  called for scaling up climate action.
Noting only three years are left for emissions to peak, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, emphasized the increasing costs associated with waiting to act, and lamented that the financial needs for implementing the Paris Agreement have not been met.
CHILE, the EU and US objected to referring to the importance of adhering to adopted principles of free and unrestricted exchange of information, noting that such principles do not exist.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, cautioned against focus on legally-binding mitigation commitments without means of implementation.
Japan agreed that the next step was a protocol, and Canada stressed \'technological twinning\' between developed and developing countries.
Also, Secretary Christ drew attention to a notification from UN Headquarters that the Republic of South Sudan was admitted as a new Member State by the UN General Assembly on 14 July 2011, and that the official name of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya had been changed to Libya .
On the inclusion of definitions and modalities in the Annex to the draft decision as it relates to LULUCF, JAPAN, with CANADA, COLOMBIA, AUSTRALIA and CHILE, proposed a number of references to the enhancement by sources and removals by sinks.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed flexibility, suggesting option 1 with elements of option 3.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, emphasized the importance of a global regime that helps to foster national action, stressing that it is national action that will ultimately reduce emissions and prepare countries for climate impacts.
Chile, for Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Peru, Panama and Dominica, said the results of the ADP should take the form of a protocol or some other legally-binding instrument under the Convention.
On   Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for annual inventories by Annex I countries, and biennial inventories by non-Annex I countries, using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines.
The US, supported by Japan and others, expressed preference for basing discussions on Annex III of document FCCC/SBI/2007/15.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US, NORWAY and JAPAN called for a mechanism that is applicable to all.
He said China and India would benefit from response measures, and Clean Development Mechanism  and Annex B  trade may provide limited welfare gains to developing countries.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said COP 22 must be a COP of implementation and action and supported suspending CMA 1 until 2018.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored regional distribution as a priority and emphasized that excessive reliance on offsets is not acceptable.
South Africa, supported by Tanzania, asked that language on strengthening implementation of TGICA be included in the text.
PANAMA underscored the need to develop technologies to "clean the atmosphere," and SLOVENIA urged the development of new technologies to mitigate climate change.
During the SBSTA closing plenary, the EU, Saudi Arabia, Australia, Norway and Japan expressed regret that agreement had not been reached.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by MICRONESIA, said the SCCF should prioritize adaptation with regard to economic diversification activities.
India objected, while the Netherlands highlighted the uncertainties in the carbon budget exercise.
Argentina, on behalf of a group of developing countries, and China said measures taken on climate change under the IMO and ICAO should respect the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular common but differentiated responsibilities .
Tuvalu, supported by Bolivia and Nicaragua, expressed concern over transparency in the REDD+ discussions.
Peru, for AILAC, supported by the African Group, and opposed by India, suggested that the Co-Chairs’ reflection note seek to eliminate duplications and improve the contents of the informal notes.
Hungary suggested that the AIJ experience should be used to implement JI, and the EU said it could be used to elaborate the CDM Reference Manual.
Cuba, for ALBA, said the Technology Framework should lead to an “action framework” and that cooperative approaches cannot be used to avoid obligations to provide finance.
CHINA, IRAN and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, suggested that the paper serve as a basis for 93consideration 94 of compliance.
The EU, with the US, New Zealand, Norway, Australia and Canada, opposed using the input document, saying many of its elements, namely those other than mitigation and the TEP, are outside the mandate of workstream 2.
Later in the session, the LDCs and the African Group expressed support for this position, while some non-Annex I countries expressed other views.
MALAWI and Bangladesh, for the LDCs, opposed co-financing.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES emphasized that directing financial and technology incentives to countries with voluntary commitments would be a “fundamental change.” The EU noted the Convention Dialogue as a forum for discussing some of these issues.
The Bahamas, for CARICOM, supported a protocol with sections on, inter alia: general principles, including and anchoring institutions; commitments and obligations; communication of information related to implementation; compliance; a dispute settlement mechanism; and financial mechanism.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested agreeing on the core elements of the 2015 agreement as quickly as possible and addressing information required for INDCs.
BRAZIL, countered by NORWAY and the EU, stressed that GWPs do not adequately capture the lifetime of a greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, that many of the new gases have short lifetimes, and therefore that GWP overestimates the actual radiative forcing of these chemicals.
PAKISTAN, with the PHILIPPINES, noted the need to clarify the registry’s functions.
Responding to a call by Bahamas, for AOSIS, to hold workshops to improve direct access capacity, AFB Chair Khan explained that the mandate of the Fund is to finance in-country adaptation projects rather than capacity building.
On the completion of work of the ADP, India suggested removing “as early as possible.” Brazil proposed adding a reference to accompanying draft decisions after COP 21.
The US, with HUNGARY, emphasized the need for coordination between EITs and donor agencies.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, called for a “satisfactory outcome” to ensure that developing countries are able to access support, including for national communications and biennial update reports.
The EU and JAPAN requested the deletion of text calling for information exchange on ways to minimize adverse effects of response measures.
On  , Norway and Argentina inquired about addressing emissions from bunker fuels and Hedegaard explained that text would be available in the afternoon.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, stressed that the Green Climate Fund must not become an “empty basket” of false promises and called on developed countries to contribute 1.5% of their GDP.
AOSIS requested studies showing emission pathways leading to temperature increases below 2 b0C from pre-industrial levels, and Saudi Arabia stated that spillover effects for developing countries of Annex I mitigation policies and measures must be analyzed.
The EU underscored the relevance of highlighting the continuous increase in climate finance flows, with the US adding the assessment’s findings were the result of a comprehensive exercise and adopted by consensus by the SCF.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the continuance of the Dialogue in a format to be determined by parties in Bali, and MEXICO called for an immediate follow-up to build consensus and promote a framework for action, with Bali providing a basis for negotiations.
AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said no information requirements were placed on initial members of Annex I. KAZAKHSTAN expressed willingness to provide the required information.
China, for BASIC, welcomed the text as open and balanced, and indicated willingness to work towards an outcome that reflects fairness and ambition.
Kuwait highlighted the need to consider the diversity of NDC types, which Argentina noted as important for identifying the specific information to be provided.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA and the US proposed forwarding text on further guidance to the GEF for consideration under the relevant agenda item.
Stressing the need for the US and Australia to make commitments and collaborate, he said negotiations should be launched at the next UNFCCC meeting to be held in Bali in November 2007.
Austria, supported by New Zealand, stated that commitments must be strengthened and that a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions after the year 2000 is necessary to achieve the goals of the Convention.
BRAZIL, with SOUTH AFRICA, said the addition of this paragraph was contingent on deletion of a paragraph inviting parties that are not ready to communicate their INDCs by the first quarter of 2015 to do so by 31 May 2015 or as soon as possible thereafter.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for building on the Cancun Agreements, including developing strong outcomes on REDD+.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed concern about the slow pace of progress, noting the group will encourage its experts to continue informal discussions.
Argentina, with Mali and Nicaragua, called for a greater emphasis on adaptation.
 SWITZERLAND, with AUSTRIA and NORWAY, highlighted the importance of reviewing how satellite and other remote sensing measurements can contribute to national inventories.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, called for an advisory regime to assist implementation, which would have a broad competence but not encroach on other bodies.
Agreeing to focus on the 2017 workshop on long-term climate finance, parties commented on the workshop’s scope, with the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, calling for it to: be informed by the High-Level Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; increase clarity on how to scale up climate finance; and, with AILAC, consider how to advance adaptation finance.
NEW ZEALAND highlighted conditions including: comparability and coherence with the AWG-LCA track; an accounting structure; and a road to a 2ºC deal, including all major emitters, to ensure the New Zealand public will “buy” the deal.
UGANDA and NIGERIA added that non-electronic forms of communication should also be used when distributing documents to many developing countries.
On intersessional activities, Mexico, as the COP Presidency, reported on activities to facilitate further negotiations, including: a ministerial meeting in March on implementing the Cancun Agreements; informal meetings with observer groups; the first meeting of the Transitional Committee for the Design of the Green Climate Fund in April; and a Ministerial dialogue on adaptation, co-hosted with South Africa, in May.
Russia proposed increasing the levy to US$0.50 to accommodate the financial concerns that the G-77/China raised in the JI contact group.
Tanzania, for the LDCs, called for: economy-wide, legally binding commitments by all developed countries; a stricter compliance regime; clear comparability of efforts; and consideration of limits to offsetting.
On the section on the reporting of supplementary information on Protocol Article 2.3  under Article 7.2, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, and the EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and NIGERIA, said the relevant information will be provided in accordance with the guidelines as they relate to Article 3.14, and the paragraphs on Article 2.3 should be deleted from this section.
Sweden, for the EU, supported by JAPAN, COLOMBIA, CANADA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, GUYANA and many others, supported establishing a “friends of the chair” group.
The UK, for the EU, responded to the US proposal made on Monday for phasing in credits for activities under Article 3.4.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that the language on a shared vision needs to be substantive and operative, and cover all four building blocks of the BAP.
The UK, supported by the US, Belgium and Saint Lucia, but opposed by the Russian Federation, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia and Brazil, proposed adding a statement that e2 80 9cthe current rate of ocean acidification is unprecedented in the last 65 million years.
The EU, GRENADA, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and VIET NAM, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested separate technical and political processes.
Supported by the US and CANADA, he called for a facilitative session to focus on countries that have not yet made pre-2020 commitments.
Additional elements were proposed by Annex I Parties, including SWITZERLAND, the EU, the US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and CHINA, but opposed by JAPAN, stressed that the language “with a view to avoiding a gap between the first and second commitment periods” is too weak, noting that in decision 1/CMP.1 , parties have already agreed “to ensure” that there is no such gap.
Belarus, Japan, Russia, Benin, China, Venezuela and others expressed concerns with the proposal and a contact group was established, co-chaired by Andrej Kranjc  and Hiroshi Ono .
On time management, Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that the additional session would cover PAWP items under all three bodies.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said the AWG-KP should establish emission reduction ranges, distribute responsibility, and apply simplicity and continuity to means and methodologies.
South Africa, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, Malawi, for LDCs, SWAZILAND and others, stated that the guidelines should be general, meaning brief and less onerous than MRV for developed countries, and that measurement and reporting are covered in other UNFCCC decisions.
The EU stressed that virtual participation should count towards quorum at JISC meetings, while Ukraine expressed concern, noting technical and time zone constraints.
CHILE, CHINA, the EU, SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA supported a standing body with a stable and fixed basis.
Colombia, Saint Lucia, for the Caribbean Community , and Switzerland, opposed by Tanzania, supported adopting an INDC decision in Lima.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and ALGERIA cautioned that discussion of the issue at this stage would be divisive and distract from discussions of compliance and continuing increases in developed countries\' emissions.
The US, supported by the G-77/China but opposed by the EU, called for a review of the approach for selecting membership of constituencies.
The US, Indonesia and South Africa supported the principle of inclusiveness.
Chile, for AILAC, proposed that parties provide information on mitigation for 2020-2025 and an indicative contribution for 2030, including information on ambition, equity and fairness.
The LDCs, supported by the EU, suggested reference to paragraph 11 of the draft text .
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the EU said they are not ready to agree to a contact group at this time.
While the EU objected, CANADA supported additional rosters for inventory reviews.
SRI LANKA and IRAN called for equal distribution of information packages prepared by CC:INFO to countries beyond those included in country study programmes.
On a question by Japan about how mitigation fits this detailed regional approach, Mexico emphasized economic links and trade agreements and drew attention to mitigation policies at the regional level.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for India, China, the Philippines, El Salvador, Dominica, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Argentina, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Venezuela, Malaysia, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Algeria and Iran, and China, for BASIC, underscored that the ADP is not a venue to “renegotiate, rewrite, or reinterpret” the Convention principles.
The US and AUSTRALIA suggested guidelines for a possible referral to the compliance body.
China, supported by the Netherlands, also called for improving synergies in the treatment of sectors, for example consistently addressing progress since AR5 or including case studies.
NEW ZEALAND, the US, INDIA, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, PERU and others said language on independent review is needed, while CHINA suggested that discussion of review occur under the AWG-LCA.
 : During the SBI closing plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, noted that the final report of the GEF was still awaited, to allow full consideration of the agenda item, which is closely related to the provision of financial resources.
Finance was also taken up during ministerial consultations facilitated by Australia and Bangladesh.
China, supported by the EU and G-77/China, suggested focusing on the scientific, technical and socioeconomic aspects of adaptation and mitigation.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the importance of making progress on technology transfer and said he looked forward to the progress report on the NWP.
On the guidelines under Article 8, delegates considered a US proposal, supported by the EU, to move Part III bis on the annual compilation and accounting of emission inventories and assigned amounts  to the Article 7 guidelines.
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Nigeria drew attention to Protocol Article 2.3  and said this should be on the agenda for substantive consideration at SB-16.
On a paragraph on provision of support by developed countries and other countries in a position to do so, Guatemala, for AILAC, lamented lack of assurance on means of implementation post-2020.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the work of the AWG-LCA should lead to an outcome at COP 15 with action from all parties, considering national circumstances.
 On Section E, Chile, for AILAC, MEXICO and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested the inclusion of a global adaptation goal.
The EU, opposed by JAPAN, the US, CANADA, CHINA, and NEW ZEALAND, urged discussions on methodologies to determine Parties ef bf bd contributions.
Drawing attention to the actions listed in decision 1/CP.10, the US, supported by Finland, highlighted the need for provision of scientific advice.
INDIA and CHINA called for focusing on the duration of the agreement first.
On bundling, Bolivia, opposed by AOSIS, Brazil, the EU and China, suggested consolidating various small-scale projects.
Iceland, with Norway and the EU, stressed a forward-looking perspective and gender balance.
Cook Islands, for AOSIS, said almost half the RAF allocation for many Pacific Islands goes towards national communications, leaving little for other activities.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that mitigation measures should contribute to economic diversification in developing countries and the need for measurement, reporting and verification  of support.
NEW ZEALAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the US supported the Argentine voluntary commitment.
Australia, the US, and the EU opposed this, with the EU saying that the proposal was substantive while the APA conclusions are procedural.
The PHILIPPINES, with SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, stressed that technology transfer was a commitment under the FCCC and opposed linking it to the CDM.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, identified the Chair’s text as a good basis for further work under the AWG-KP but expressed concern over slow progress.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a legally-binding outcome agreed by political leaders in Copenhagen.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , stressed the need for ambitious mitigation targets by Annex I countries and to avoid compromising sustainable development and the survival of the LDCs.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and IRAN called for recognizing that adaptation is country-specific.
The EU supported parallel discussions on developed and developing country actions and, with INDONESIA, further exploring MRV.
Highlighting the urgency of required actions, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, NORWAY and BOLIVIA, supported a single five-year commitment period.
Iran, for the LMDCs, called for strengthening linkages between action and support, and avoiding additional burdens, and, with CHINA, for identifying potential barriers to implementation.
Brazil underscored the need to ensure that assessment mechanisms do not themselves become a barrier to technology transfer, and Norway underscored the issue of financing cannot be solved until leakages are addressed.
After further comments from CHILE, NEW ZEALAND and GERMANY regarding clarification of the process and time scale of equilibration, delegates agreed to the original version of the draft text, which states that this carbon dioxide would 93eventually equilibrate with the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
AOSIS and AILAC called for a clear definition of climate finance, with AILAC stressing this will help avoid double-counting.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NORWAY, proposed addressing all elements this year.
With regard to sources of funding, developing countries noted financing should come from Annex I countries, while developed countries, such as the US and EU, highlighted the importance of the private sector.
BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA, INDIA, VENEZUELA and others preferred considering them under a shared vision, while BARBADOS and TUVALU stressed that mitigation goals are fundamental to mitigation action, preferring to discuss them under both building blocks.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the EU, expressed preference for adopting conclusions rather than a decision.
Bangladesh, for the Least Developed Countries , said adaptation should receive priority attention and practical support.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested combining a bottom-up approach, which allows each party to define its own contribution based on national circumstances and capacity, with a top-down structure to enable comparability of efforts.
 On mitigation, Belize, for AOSIS, called for urgent, practical and ambitious actions, including large reductions within the next 10-15 years by the largest historical emitters and by major emitting developing countries with assistance from developed countries.
Raising a point of order, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by GUATEMALA and GRENADA, requested suspending the SBSTA.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, with EGYPT, proposed similar consolidation for other subsections and distribution as soon as possible before Bangkok.
A contact group, co-facilitated by Japan and Tanzania, was established to discuss the proposed amendment to allow Bureau members to nominate TG-Data members.
China, Canada and others suggested allowing HFC-23 destruction projects subject to certain provisions.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter requirements than Annex I countries.
The EU and CANADA stressed the need to build on SBI-18 conclusions, and the G-77/CHINA said the work should be based on its submission to SBI-18.
The US, opposed by Germany and Austria, proposed deleting reference to leakage from the transport of CO2 as a factor in the net reduction of emissions through CCS, saying that its impact is minor.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by many parties, expressed willingness to negotiate on the basis of the compilation text with bridging proposals, and proposed that parties be allowed to insert language where necessary and meet separately to discuss specific proposals.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: enhanced provision of MOI by developed countries; coordination between the technology and financial mechanisms; and equal treatment of mitigation, adaptation, MOI, and transparency of action and support in the 2015 agreement.
Regarding a sentence on the risks of delaying mitigation, Saudi Arabia, supported by Venezuela, but opposed by Finland, proposed adding language on how this could undermine action to promote sustainable development.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that during COP 15, Annex B parties supported a goal of limiting temperature increase to below 2°C, and highlighted that the pledges so far made by these parties will not achieve this goal.
 The UK, for the EU, and supported by many others, called for a more ambitious COP 13 decision that is less focused on technical and methodological issues.
The G-77/China, with the US and China, expressed its full support for the Delhi Declaration.
Calling finance and technology the two fundamental pillars of the Paris Agreement, Guatemala, for AILAC, highlighted progress in these areas.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, with the EU, expressed support for an eight-year second commitment period, emphasizing the mid-term review of QELROs and the need to maintain a flexible process.
BRAZIL and BURKINA FASO said project participants should determine choice of monitoring guidelines, while the EU, SWITZERLAND, and CHILE supported GPG as an efficient and transparent basis for generic project monitoring.
Guyana, with Barbados, supported the establishment of milestones for 2010.
Japan and the US asked questions about the voluntary nature of contributions.
Opposed by the US, the EU then proposed two new options, which requested Parties to decide on only one instead of two indicative scales.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by AOSIS and others, proposed assessed contributions.
  Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed including implications of using various metrics to calculate carbon dioxide equivalents on the SBSTA 30 agenda.
In opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, reaffirmed the need for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, calling for a higher level of ambition by Annex I parties.
SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN said sectoral targets should be restricted to Annex I parties, with OMAN stating that he would not accept further obligations beyond the UNFCCC.
With China, the African Group emphasized that REDD+ initiatives are voluntary, incentive-driven actions.
Bangladesh, with the EU and Canada, supported the extension of the LEG 92s mandate, and highlighted complementarity between the LDC Fund and the SCCF.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the need to incorporate scientific information released since the IPCC AR4, which points to climate change effects occurring much faster than projected and previous research greatly underestimating costs of inaction.
COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA proposed provision for bilateral, multilateral and unilateral CDM projects.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed developed countries’ continued assurances to continue to lead in the context of a universal agreement in which all parties do their best.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND urged prioritizing attention to the most vulnerable countries.
On Article 6, MALAYSIA and CHINA stressed the importance of a concrete implementation work programme.
BANGLADESH called on Parties to earmark funds from the GEF for LDCs.
BRAZIL, PANAMA, INDIA and the EU identified the UNFCCC as the right forum for bunker fuel discussions.
The US, supported by Norway, called for engaging specialists throughout the drafting period.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, wished to consult with the Co-Chairs bilaterally on substantive issues.
Sudan asked about the role of NAPAs in Bangladesh in enhancing the process of integrating adaptation into planning, noting challenges particularly with international integration, where a full understanding of sustainable development is still lacking.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, some Annex I Parties, including Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the Russian Federation, did not join the consensus.
 NORWAY and ICELAND withdrew their proposals, as they were contained in other proposals.
As a compromise, New Zealand, supported by the US, Brazil and WGII Vice Chair Sergey Semenov, suggested that the general reference to the Paris Agreement was enough to cover the stocktake process.
Canada, supported by Norway, called for gender equity, not just balance, in the IPCC and for a report on the gender-related event that took place at IPCC-46.
On consequences of the enforcement branch, NEW ZEALAND, opposed by BRAZIL and INDIA, suggested new text on the issuance of assigned amounts under Article 3.3 and 3.4.
On  , the G-77/China, supported by the EU, suggested identifying areas that are new to countries, like NAMAs and CCS.
Poland and the Russian Federation expressed concern about the availability of GEF financing within the financial mechanism and said it should not be limited to developing countries.
The EU and Canada expressed their satisfaction with the functioning of the Secretariat.
Responding to calls by China, for the G-77/CHINA, with other developing countries, to clarify developed countries e2 80 99 views on how to fill existing gaps in capacity building, the US identified the TEC, CTCN and the Climate Technology Initiative Private Financing Advisory Network.
MOZAMBIQUE, with BELGUIM, called for "more action and less talk."
On commitments for support, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US, CANADA and others said all parties in a position to do so should provide support for the implementation of the new agreement.
India, China, Bolivia, Nicaragua, Viet Nam, Belarus, Iran and Algeria, for the Arab Group, preferred the first option, in which the COP would decide that all parties, when communicating to the Secretariat their INDCs, will provide the information necessary to facilitate the clarity, transparency and understanding of their INDCs.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NORWAY, said the workstreams should not be seen as competitive but rather as complementary.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for, inter alia: further clarity on the AWG-LCA outcome, maintaining a rules-based system; and enhancing the environmental integrity of the regime in areas such as land use, land-use change and forestry  and the flexible mechanisms.
 c2 a0 On this item and the item on LDCs, CHINA drew attention to the annotated agenda , which indicates that the outcomes of work at SB 48 will be forwarded to COP 24.
On cooperation, the EU and INDIA emphasized carbon markets.
 The MARSHALL ISLANDS and MICRONESIA highlighted the need for information related to technology transfer for adaptation.
A Workshop on Climate Change Vulnerability and Adaptation in Latin America will take place in Montevideo, Uruguay, from 22-24 April 1996.
Mexico also said it was willing to host the next session and she said she would discuss the issue with Costa Rica.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with China, for the LMDCs, and others, opposed by the EU and others, favored e2 80 9cby the first quarter of 2015 and endeavor to do so as soon as possible thereafter.
Some countries, including JAPAN and the US, noted the urgent need for a decision including anthropogenic activities because this influences the ability of some countries to ratify and implement the Protocol.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by others, requested background material and updates as a basis for negotiating text.
Turkey, supported by Papua New Guinea, noted the need for “damage control” because the rules and procedures of the UN were challenged in Copenhagen and proposed moving from a focus on principles to discussion of procedures.
On adaptation, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted: the development of modalities and guidelines on the process for LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; modalities and guidelines for the NAPs of developing countries in general; and concluding the work programme on loss and damage.
AOSIS and the EU added that this matter could also be considered at COP 21.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait urged a contact group discussion, while the EU and Japan argued that there was an overlap with discussions on Protocol Article 3.14 .
AUSTRALIA opposed a spin-off group, pointing to Decision 2/CP.17, which “consolidates all progressive discussions related to response measures under the Convention.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed that parties are working to complete and not consolidate work, and that he does not see a mandate for consolidation.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the Bahamas, for AOSIS, called for clear recognition that developing countries require additional support from developed countries to participate effectively in the MRV system.
NORWAY, with the US and the EU, underscored the importance of further guidance on safeguards information systems.
The US, MEXICO, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, NORWAY, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, the EU, ZAMBIA, JAPAN and others provided comments on, inter alia: long-term and global aspects of adaptation; commitments and contributions; monitoring and evaluation; sharing information, knowledge and lessons learned; and institutional arrangements.
 In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiating sessions in: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, emphasized the importance of adopting the GPG to advance the implementation of the UNFCCC, and the EU noted that delaying adoption of the GPG will prevent preparation of inventory submissions due in 2006.
On the draft decision text on Article 5.2 for COP-6 and COP/MOP-1, Saudi Arabia, supported by Tuvalu, Peru, China and Brazil, and opposed by the US and New Zealand, suggested deleting references to activities under Article 3.3 and 3.4 at this stage.
On  , Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Egypt, Bolivia and several other developing countries proposed deletion of the text relating to this issue.
France, for the European Union , highlighted the potential for using a levy on aviation revenue to combat climate change and, with Australia, the use of carbon markets to achieve cost-effective mitigation.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, VENEZUELA, INDIA, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, NICARAGUA, IRAN and Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, raised concerns over the legal status of the revised draft decision and revised elements for a draft negotiating text.
Saudi Arabia urged full transparency and participation at COP-6, and Indonesia called for full participation of developing countries before and at COP-6.
Tuvalu, supported by the Gambia, for LDCs, and Bolivia, noted the organization of work since COP/MOP 1 in Montreal has resulted in discussions that have “led nowhere.” He called for a single agenda item on ensuring no gap between the first and second commitment periods and said that “those not wishing to continue their obligations under the Protocol should be politely and quietly asked to leave the room.” AWG-KP Chair Macey noted this could be addressed under the organization of work under the agenda item on further commitments for Annex I parties under the Protocol.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA said discussion on cooperation and support for implementation was not mandated by Decision 1/CP.17 .
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said adaptation action should contribute to economic diversification.
Vanuatu, on behalf of the Least Developed Countries  group, called for assistance in implementing the UNFCCC and Protocol.
 The NETHERLANDS, on behalf of the OECD, reported on the Climate Technology Initiative , which was established to assist all interested countries in meeting the objectives of the UNFCCC.
Funding for the workshop was provided by the Governments of Spain, Switzerland, the US and APN.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said parties in Doha must establish a separate expert body for the Review to feed into the ADP, as well as a platform for developing common accounting rules.
He underscored that the US must respect its climate commitments, adding that France would lead a dialogue with the new US President with respect and determination.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, and Panama, for the Central American Integration System, lamented that the Chair’s new text does not reflect views expressed by the parties.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, urged parties to support the implementation of NAPAs.
On commitments, SOUTH AFRICA and INDIA emphasized developed countries e2 80 99 obligation to provide capacity-building support to developing countries.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China , emphasized that the AWG-LCA’s work should be based on the principles and provisions of the Convention and the BAP, and should not re-classify or differentiate amongst developing countries.
The role of historical emissions was raised, with Australia, Gabon and others stating that deciding to base reference emissions levels on historical data at this point would prescribe outcomes and create problems with data needs.
In this regard, resistance by four countries e2 80 94Saudi Arabia, the US, Russia, and Kuwait e2 80 94to “welcome” the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C during the first week created a media tsunami, which may have compensated for the lack of strong language on the report in the final package decision.
  Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, the US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
Australia stressed urgency and, with Egypt, highlighted the need for more information on aerosols.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, called for linking opportunities demonstrated by the TEM to action on the ground, and Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the TEM to result in tangible action items.
The Arab Group and Iran, opposed by the US and Switzerland, stressed the need to focus on the full scope of NDCs as defined in Paris Agreement Article 3 .
BANGLADESH supported R&amp;D to identify the most cost-effective technologies and called for an IPR waiver, particularly for LDCs.
Grenada and Brazil opposed the proposal for a full-time chair, noting the existence of a full-time Secretariat and highlighting that the proposal would only favor those countries that can support a full-time chair.
The US and Saudi Arabia expressed hesitance that a high-quality report could be completed by COP-13.
 The Russian Federation and Canada expressed concerns over wording indicating that the AWG agrees to an initial indicative range of Annex I emission reduction objectives.
AOSIS, the LDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP supported adding text that reflects Annex I emission reductions of at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020, and AOSIS suggested also reflecting the long-term perspective.
Nepal, for the LDCs, stressed the need for deep cuts in GHG emissions to avoid irreversible impacts of climate change, mostly suffered by LDCs, and called for prioritization of MOI.
Saint Lucia, on behalf of AOSIS, said the 2oC target is unacceptably high for small island developing states, while agreeing that a science-based target is needed.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , emphasized the need for discussion regarding the share of proceeds for adaptation under the AWG-KP, maintaining that few changes are needed to the rules governing the flexible mechanisms and LULUCF.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and NIGERIA stressed that technology transfer is pivotal to the Convention.
GERMANY, AUSTRIA, and KENYA highlighted the relevance of the figure and supported keeping it.
Japan, supported by Finland, emphasized that linking adaptation and mitigation would be a useful addition to cost-benefit analyses of adaptation.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stated that being party to the Paris Agreement implies a responsibility to work for its success, ambition and progression.
Bids to locate the Permanent Secretariat have been made by Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Uruguay.
Many parties, including AOSIS, Australia, Norway, Japan, AILAC, the EU, Singapore and Mexico, identified the need to build on existing institutions.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged moving into full negotiating mode in Tianjin.
Bolivia, for ALBA, called for developed countries to meet their historical responsibility.
South Africa, on behalf of BASIC, urged raising the level of ambition of current pledges, and said the adoption of amendments to the Protocol is “the cornerstone” for a successful outcome in Doha.
The Philippines, supported by several parties, proposed deleting item 4 and amending item 3 to “planning of work in accordance with all the elements of Decision 1/CP.17.” Grenada, the EU, Barbados and others opposed this proposal.
Belize, for SICA, called for all parties to work constructively on a balanced text centered around CBDRRC.
The LDCs, AOSIS, INDONESIA, and CHINA supported an additional session.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS suggested reflecting convergences and, with COLOMBIA, starting work towards a decision text.
BARBADOS said the needs of Africa, LDCs and SIDS should be prioritized in the initial phase.
Brazil, with the US and Norway, highlighted that many of the REDD-plus principles, including financing and MRV, are dealt with in the sub-section on NAMAs.
Kuwait expressed concern about the economic and social impacts of lowered emissions, and Saudi Arabia said that considering emission reductions impeded the progress of the Convention and overlooked possible positive effects of climate change on agriculture.
On 30 May, the US, France, Britain and others began discussions in Paris on holding one or more international conferences to persuade India and Pakistan to renounce further nuclear testing in return for help from the industrial world in developing civilian nuclear power centers.
The G-77/CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA said a discussion on which language should be included in decisions is beyond the group e2 80 99s mandate.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, the ARAB GROUP and others, supported using the text as a basis for further work, with some noting that it reflected a wide range of views.
Guyana, for GRULAC, congratulated the Chairs and Rapporteur of the ADP on their election, adding that they were “pleased” to be part of the leadership of the ADP, and offered the support and cooperation of GRULAC.
AUSTRALIA supported stabilization at 450 ppm or less, while the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA preferred stabilization at as far below 350 ppm as possible, noting this has been supported by AOSIS and a number of vulnerable countries.
JAPAN, HONDURAS and several Latin American Parties, opposed by TUVALU, proposed deleting the list of requirements for project activities.
The EU, Lesotho, for the LDCs, the Russian Federation, the Philippines, Singapore, Ethiopia, for the African Union, Algeria, for the African Group, Japan and many other developed and developing countries also supported the Copenhagen Accord, with several parties noting that it was a compromise document.
On options for an informal document, stressing that negotiations on the PAWP should remain party-driven, Iran, for the Like-Minded Group of Developing Countries , and Indonesia, supported option 1.
TUVALU underscored provisions on prior informed consent and, with the SOLOMON ISLANDS, stressed the need to consider biodiversity.
The US and ECUADOR welcomed the compromise.
China, supported by Saudi Arabia, proposed changing the statement 92s confidence level from  93very high confidence 94 to 93high confidence.
The SBI met late at night to consider: Annex I national communications; capacity-building; implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 ; the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova ; arrangements for intergovernmental meetings; administrative and financial matters; the proposal by Croatia on land use, land-use change and forestry ; and other matters.
He referred to the financial commitment of US$100 billion in the document as “a bribe,” saying that a commitment to 2°C would ask Africa to “sign an incineration pact” and was based on values that “tunneled 6 million people in Europe into furnaces.” The UK, Mexico, Canada, Grenada, Norway, the EU and others called on Sudan to withdraw his offensive references to the Holocaust.
The US said the private sector should become the main source of funding and the EU underlined the role of the carbon market, innovative financing, and leveraging private investments.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China , suggested restructuring the draft negotiating text in accordance with the Bali Action Plan  and emphasized the need for a separate chapter on finance.
Argentina, supported by China, said that the TORs should not include contentious issues being discussed in the AWG-LCA and should focus on activities under the Convention.
MEXICO, supported by UGANDA, CHILE and BOLIVIA, also suggested text on human rights.
Brazil highlighted the shortcoming of GWPs, while the EU and Norway supported their continued use.
 The President announced the following nominations: Africa \'Mauritania and Zimbabwe; Asia \' India and Japan; Eastern Europe \' Hungary and the Russian Federation; Latin America and the Caribbean \' Antigua and Barbuda and Argentina; Western Europe and Others \' Australia and Germany; and AOSIS \' Samoa.
Mexico highlighted the needs of vulnerable countries, sectors and groups, and, with the Gambia and others, underscored needs of women, children, the poor and indigenous peoples.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, highlighted the issue’s importance for the Group and noted it should be part of a future agreement, reflecting the Convention’s principles and provisions.
  NORWAY and AUSTRALIA identified the need to consider legal issues and, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed synergies between the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
WGI Co-Chair Thomas Stocker discussed a variety of expert meetings, including a Joint Expert Meeting in Lima, Peru, on Geoengineering in June 2011; a second WGI Lead Author meeting held in Brest, France in July 2011, which engaged primarily with cross-chapter issues; and a third Lead Author WGI meeting to be held in Marrakech, Morocco in April 2012.
The EU, supported by the US, Canada, Japan and others, suggested working in smaller groups to facilitate discussions.
With Ecuador and India, she said the selection of chapter scientists should be transparent and open and focus on funding those from developing countries.
On  Japan and Canada stressed that parties should be able to use plural base years.
The Russian Federation and the EU supported the text as drafted, because it shows that a larger number preferred Alternative A to B.
Barbados, for AOSIS, with COLOMBIA, for Chile, Peru, Costa Rica and Guatemala, and others, supported the Chair’s recommendation on the need for a political process covering the scaling up and mobilization of climate finance, as well as for intensified and more structured work in processes under the Convention, focusing on sources and options for mobilizing climate finance in the short-, medium- and long-term.
Delegates to COP-5 first considered the proposal by Pakistan and Azerbaijan to delete the name of Turkey from Annexes I and II of the FCCC in Plenary on Wednesday, 27 October.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Canada, bracketed reference to the CDM Reference Manual.
Brazil, with Thailand, Liberia and Bangladesh, called for a quick and simple establishment of REDD.
 Fiji, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed, inter alia, that guidelines for biennial update reports  should build on existing domestic systems and capacity, and allow for voluntary use of independent third-party verification at the domestic level.
On  , the EU, supported by Norway, highlighted the level of ambition as the core of the discussions.
Norway, Switzerland, the UK, Germany, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Mexico, Belgium, Spain, Luxembourg, New Zealand and others requested that a verbal report from the side event on enhancing gender balance in the IPCC, which took place on Tuesday, 5 September, be presented under the agenda item, “Any Other Business.” Saudi Arabia opposed, noting the need to confer with his capital regarding any new agenda items.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA warned against attempts to renegotiate the Convention and its principles.
Brazil, Canada and the Russian Federation made suggestions to qualify the statement.
Consultations were also being held between the US and India on the composition of the Executive Board, and between China, Norway and Canada on the possible role of multilateral funding institutions.
On sources of input, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, and NEW ZEALAND called for a flexible definition of “all elements,” and not limiting them to adaptation, mitigation and MOI.
Germany and the UK underscored that the Panel is reviewing only the form, not the policy.
NORWAY added that it should be made clear that the numbers are illustrative and provisional and ICELAND cautioned against attaching too much importance to the numbers.
While Chile, for AILAC, the US and the EU supported beginning discussions on identifying elements for the agreement or decision text, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, said it is premature.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted linkages between the AWGs and the need for cooperation.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , underscored the need for methodological work on REDD+.
Responding to a query by Germany and the US, Acting Chair El Gizouli and Secretary Christ explained that establishing additional TSUs was a common IPCC practice, and recalled the establishment of TSUs for the AR5 SYR and for the LULUCF SR.
The G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND and others highlighted the equal importance of the building blocks.
EGYPT, INDIA, NAMIBIA and the LDCs said the Fund should have full juridical personality to ensure direct access.
China, with India and others, stressed the importance of deep emission reductions by Annex I parties in the second commitment period for “a strong and robust carbon price.” Senegal highlighted that the carbon market should function as an incentive for investment.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed support for the COP Presidency.
Uruguay, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the need for flexibility in accordance with provisions of Paris Agreement Article 7 , including on vehicles for communication.
The G-77/CHINA and others said the SCCF should finance activities currently not supported by existing funds, and, with MICRONESIA, TANZANIA and KENYA, stressed the importance of prioritizing adaptation activities.
Switzerland, the US, and the EU called for a structure similar to that of the COP decision on the fifth review, with the US and the EU supporting consideration of highlighting some SCF recommendations.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs and Cook Islands, for AOSIS, with New Zealand, Canada and Norway, stressed that impacts of response measures must not be included in the adaptation chapter.
South Africa, for the African Group, said that it would not support text stipulating that all parties must contribute financial resources nor an approach suggesting differentiation among developing countries on access to financial resources.
On the provisional agenda for COP-6, the US, the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia said the proposed new sub-item on policies and measures should await SBSTA 92s consideration.
Canada, New Zealand, Norway and Australia supported the use of existing UNFCCC rules of procedure.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported by AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and JAPAN, said it was premature to discuss allocation due to the difficulties in differentiating emissions resulting from national and international fuel.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, JAPAN, CHILE and others welcomed the table as useful.
Mali, for the African Group, suggested a robust compliance mechanism.
In these discussions, the EU, supported by Canada and Switzerland, sought to emphasize the linkage between the work of the AWG and Protocol Article 9, and Norway repeatedly called for work on defining a long-term goal and discussed the limitations of UNFCCC Article 2  in helping to define such a goal.
Following a query from JAPAN on the funding for CGE meetings, the US said she was surprised to hear that funding came from the core budget, and that she could not agree to the text without further consultations.
Highlighting the vulnerability of her region, Colombia, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , stressed that effective implementation of the Paris Agreement requires consideration of countries’ special circumstances.
BRAZIL and INDIA raised points of order concerning access to the Bella Center.
Several parties, including the G-77/China, the Russian Federation and Argentina expressed concerns about the timing and procedures for the international transaction log to become fully operational.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said adopting the Protocol amendments in Doha will ensure a seamless transition to the second commitment period.
Delegates also discussed text proposed by the EU that would link the prioritization of energy efficiency and renewable energy under the Mauritius Strategy with the fourteenth and fifteenth sessions of the Commission on Sustainable Development in 2006-2007.
Germany and Botswana observed that countries with resources would be better able to undertake stakeholder consultations, which could lead to imbalances in the process.
On the inclusion of principles within the text, the G-77/China, opposed by the US and Japan, urged their retention.
Proposing the adoption of the ADP agenda based on what was agreed to in Durban, Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a detailed schedule of work with timetables and milestones.
The G-77/CHINA, AFRICA GROUP and others called for a concrete work plan and timetable.
Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, stated the Group’s preference for a five-year second commitment period but expressed willingness to consider an eight-year term provided it includes: a mid-term review mechanism requiring deeper targets consistent with the upcoming fifth IPCC Report; REDD+ actions under a national reference level; and national MRV systems to safeguard environmental integrity in another four-year commitment period.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and the EU, opposed by the GAMBIA, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, THAILAND and other developing countries, called for coordination with the AWG-LCA on levels of ambition and comparability of efforts.
On the way forward to COP 19, Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by NEPAL, INDONESIA and KENYA, proposed: submissions, including on energy policies and technologies with emphasis on the scale of emission reductions, barriers and strategies to overcome those barriers; a technical paper compiling parties’ submissions on specific problems they face, with corresponding solutions from technical expert meetings; a technical workshop; and a ministerial roundtable at COP 19.
Drawing attention to the urgent need to contain the adverse effects of climate change, President Paul Biya, Cameroon, called on COP 21 to address the degradation of forests in Central Africa and desertification affecting countries around Lake Chad.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, opposed.
The EU expressed disappointment that consultations had yielded “no progress.” Egypt requested references to next steps in the text.
The PHILIPPINES and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that market-based approaches are not covered by the Convention, while AUSTRALIA favored considering the flexibility mechanisms also under the AWG-LCA given that not all Annex I parties participate in discussions under the AWG-KP.
Responding to comments, Chair Krug proposed adding to the chapters on emissions pathways and impacts a reference to “1.5     c2 b0C compared with 2     c2 b0C and, where warranted by the literature, comparison with higher levels of warming.” Saint Lucia, Brazil and China expressed support for this change.
The EU, the US, NORWAY, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by others, suggested discussing the preamble later, once substantive sections have taken shape.
A number of Parties, including NORWAY, RUSSIA, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, CHILE, FRANCE, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, IRAN and EGYPT, called for differentiation among Annex I countries in order to take account of differences in national circumstances and economic burdens.
Supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, MEXICO proposed changing reference to e2 80 9cdeveloped parties e2 80 9d in paragraph 132.1 to e2 80 9call parties, e2 80 9d noting that both developed and developing countries need to address barriers to technology transfer.
The US, Singapore and Japan indicated that Convention Article 3.5  adequately addresses trade concerns.
INDIA, with BRAZIL, TUVALU, INDONESIA, GRENADA, MEXICO and others, called for organizing an intersessional meeting before Durban.
Bangladesh stressed that language highlighting the specific needs and vulnerabilities of LDCs, SIDS and Africa should not be lost.
Japan, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, the United Arab Emirates, Syria, Nigeria, Libya and others, opposed by Grenada and Tuvalu, stressed the importance of including CCS under the CDM.
During the closing plenary, South Africa, speaking for the BASIC countries, stressed the need to “give equal preference to pre-2020 issues” at the next UNFCCC session, expressing concern that these issues were not adequately dealt with in Marrakech.
The PHILIPPINES, BOLIVIA, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA reiterated the mandate in the Bali Action Plan, which highlights NAMAs by developing country parties in the context of sustainable development, supported and enabled by technology, financing and capacity-building, in a measurable, reportable and verifiable manner.
NORWAY also suggested reference to health, just transition and, with CANADA, indigenous peoples’ rights.
 The US disagreed with the G-77 and China, regarding the "equal footing" for the panels.
Barbados likened the difficulties of access to having “been given an ATM card without the pin number.” Switzerland discussed the need for funding to be predictable and acknowledged problems concerning operational aspects of the current financial mechanism.
The EU, Fiji, Australia, Kenya, Benin and the UK, while sympathetic, worried about setting a precedent.
Japan highlighted the potential of sectoral approaches in achieving global emission reductions, and New Zealand supported analyzing other types of commitments in addition to quantified targets.
On   to calculate GWPs, Brazil, supported by India, expressed preference for option 2, which uses global temperature potentials , while outlining a third option, which would maintain the provisions of the Protocol for the second commitment period.
MEXICO said narrowing the scope to these two issues will inevitably “touch upon other issues.” The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with others, said the facilitator’s note from the Bonn meeting could be considered as a basis for further discussion, but should be further developed based on views and submissions.
The G-77 and China, AOSIS, the Philippines, the Russian Federation and India distributed separate amendments.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, called for the APA to give equal attention to all issues, and for flexibility for developing countries in the transparency framework.
Panama, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS , called for clear rules on transparency and market mechanisms.
On sectoral approaches, INDIA, PAKISTAN and the PHILIPPINES reiterated that these approaches should be considered in the context of Convention Article 4.1 on the transfer of technologies.
During discussions, the US, Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, Norway, Belgium and others expressed concern about this situation and called for targeted outreach undertaken at high levels, including by the heads of WMO and UNEP, with IPCC Chair Lee leading the effort.
Calling for a prompt start to the Review, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, with Singapore, the EU and others, emphasized the need for a narrow focus on scope in the context of what was agreed in Cancun.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and IRAN stressed the need to focus on the full scope of NDCs as defined in Paris Agreement Article 3 .
SAUDI ARABIA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, opposed by SAMOA and JAPAN, said Article 3.14  was enforceable.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, cited a lack of progress on agenda item 3 and further matters, including modalities for Agreement Article 9.5  under the APA, and urged parties to decide, at COP 23, that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said that the ADP should work towards a new protocol applicable to all, based on the latest science, be inclusive and contain strong commitments and deadlines.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Mexico said such anchoring could be achieved by using the phrase e2 80 9cshall serve in this agreement.
Tanzania, Mali, Zambia, and Nicaragua called for a reference to drought to reflect the realities of global climate change, but an author explained that the report had not assessed changes in drought, given a dearth of literature specific to further warming of 0.5 c2 b0C.
Two texts were proposed, one from the EU and the other from the G-77/China.
China, opposed by Australia, proposed a new preambular paragraph noting “the agreed outcome pursuant to the BAP and the Doha Amendment.”
Argentina, Bolivia, Venezuela, Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador and the Republic of Korea expressed hesitation over taking any immediate decision to carry out new work on this subject.
 NIGERIA, IRAN, SENEGAL and MOROCCO opposed new commitments for non-Annex I Parties.
With Japan and Canada, she said the enforcement branch should be able to impose facilitative consequences.
 GERMANY, referring to the EU experience, suggested making a joint commitment for a future protocol, setting common targets for Annex I Parties and deciding how to share them.
Brazil, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA AND CHINA , expressed concern about developed countries unilaterally creating new criteria for funding under the GCF, stressing that this practice has no legal basis.
TUVALU expressed “extreme disappointment” with lack of progress under the AWG-KP and, opposed by INDIA, urged consideration of parties’ proposals for Protocol amendments as “a lifeboat for a sinking process.” South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA, the PHILIPPINES, CHINA, Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, OMAN and ZAMBIA, requested further time to resolve outstanding technical issues in the AWG-KP’s text.
SWITZERLAND called for commitments by all countries to provide resources for climate change policies and, with the US and the LDCs, for all countries in a position to do so to provide support to those requiring it.
Mali, for the African Group, stressed that individual country assessments need to go in parallel with the collective assessment of progress.
The Republic of Korea noted that they were still undertaking bilateral consultations with Qatar regarding hosting COP 18.
The EU, POLAND, SWITZERLAND and the G-77/CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, urged that the ToR be considered prior to COP-6.
Peru, for AILAC, urged moving forward on the practical implementation and operationalization of the Cancun adaptation framework.
On Monday, 9 June, the G-77/China and EU presented their proposals for draft conclusions.
Perdomo indicated that 112  of non-Annex I Parties have submitted their first communications, including over 60% of the LDCs, and said submissions of national communications from India, China and Brazil are nearing completion.
The US and SWITZERLAND opposed.
ROMANIA, LITHUANIA and ALBANIA said economic and social progress must be harmonized with environmental protection by applying the principle of sustainable development.
JAPAN underscored continuity of existing UNFCCC frameworks and proposed updating existing NAPAs, and UGANDA highlighted their implementation.
India and others said they supported only positive lists, while the EU said negative lists could be needed, for instance, to avoid double counting and to clarify that unilateral NAMAs do not qualify under the CDM.
Representatives of countries and groups announced: the European Fund for Sustainable Development; an initiative for scaling up renewable energy in SIDS; a partnership for sustainable electricity trade between Germany, France, Morocco, Portugal and Spain; and a pledge by Rwanda to ratify the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol in early 2017.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, said each country should maintain a schedule of actions they intend to take to meet their commitments, with periodic reporting on implementation and revisions to enhance commitments.
Venezuela, supported by Uruguay, suggested a greater focus on sustainable development, cooperation and technical assistance, and called for including nuclear energy.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, called for balanced outcomes on the PAWP in future sessions, and underscored the need for pre-2020 enhanced ambition and provision of support.
NIGERIA, TANZANIA and ZAMBIA warned against overreliance on the private sector.
Maldives, for AOSIS, welcomed binding language on NDC guidance for ICTU and its clear focus on mitigation, but noted concern on the 2028 review date, saying this would be too late for vulnerable countries.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the vulnerability of the developing country workforce due to challenges, such as: adverse impacts of climate change in sectors, such as agriculture; developed country agricultural subsidies; standards and tariffs; and rapid population growth.
Guatemala, for AILAC, suggested tracking progress in achieving developed countries’ commitments to provide new, additional, predictable and adequate support to developing countries.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, underlined the importance of mitigation as part of a balanced and ambitious outcome in Durban and said appropriate action on mitigation requires a decision, in Durban, on the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Peru, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean , called for progress on, inter alia: designing the 2018 facilitative dialogue; adopting a gender action plan; and supporting work on emerging issues such as oceans, health, and indigenous peoples.
Colombia, for AILAC, emphasized consideration of countries’ different capacities.
India, supported by the UK, suggested the possibility of funding short-term student visits to TSUs.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for: a fair multilateral rules-based regime bringing into effect equitable access to sustainable development, and an equity reference framework.
Brazil, supported by Argentina and others, suggested that IMO and ICAO should continue reporting to the SBSTA.
  On Tuesday, 21 October, Ulrika Raab, Swedish Energy Agency, facilitated a TEM where Canada, the UK and the United Arab Emirates shared perspectives on carbon capture and storage  options, barriers and opportunities, and an expert panel of business representatives presented on CCS implementation and options for carbon usage.
Citing uncertainties and lack of value added, China, with Brazil and Saudi Arabia, and opposed by Germany, the UK and others, called for removing a paragraph noting an increase of information allowing calculation of the amount of mitigation needed to avoid impacts.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and other Annex I Parties questioned the necessity of a further round of submissions, and preferred text supporting action by the Secretariat in time for SB-17.
In contrast, Canada and Australia said the guidance in the 2019 Refinement represents a significant improvement to the 2006 Guidelines and that, as a second order approximation, it enables countries with large natural disturbances to disaggregate and identify drivers of emissions and removals, thus helping policymakers make better decisions.
AOSIS, LDCs, AILAC, EU, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Norway, China and others recognized the need for adaptation support in particularly vulnerable countries.
ECUADOR, with SYRIA, SUDAN, CHILE, SIERRA LEONE and EL SALVADOR, drew attention to the linkages between climate change impacts and water.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA and INDONESIA, said that reference to consequences should be with regard to all developing countries.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and JAPAN supported the continued use of GWPs, and NORWAY proposed that the IPCC provide additional information on other metrics.
The EU expressed regret with the African Group’s proposal, highlighting that it is not realistic for one contact group to work faster than another.
On worldwide storage capacity in geological formations, DENMARK and GERMANY suggested noting that the quoted amount of 93at least 94 2,000 Gt CO2 is an estimate.
On the Committee’s annual report and its request to the COP/MOP concerning the legal status of Committee members, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU identified the discussions under the SBI on privileges and immunities as the best way to address this issue and proposed reflecting this in the COP/MOP decision.
Bhutan, for LDCs, supported by MEXICO, SUDAN, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Vanuatu, for AOSIS, identified priorities, including: the need for NAPs to be driven by country needs and priorities; natural transition from short-term to long-term adaptation; and a separate institutional set-up for LDCs.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SAMOA, proposed a compromise text whereby the Executive Board would review and could make recommendations to the COP/MOP if it considered it necessary.
Bolivia, for ALBA, said the Durban outcome did not deliver a solution to developed countries’ lack of political will to undertake ambitious emission reduction commitments.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by VENEZUELA, welcomed complementary activities to raise ambition, but stressed that these should not distract from activities under the UNFCCC.
KUWAIT and QATAR emphasized the importance of including CCS under the CDM.
SAUDI ARABIA called for adaptation text to address the impact of response measures, with the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, and NORWAY opposing.
Nigeria, for the G-77/China, said the draft decision could not be used as the basis of negotiation, emphasizing that it did not contain sufficient guidance on operational procedures.
Responding to a question by AUSTRALIA on drivers of the increase in Italy e2 80 99s photovoltaic power generation capacity to 18 gigawatts, ITALY mentioned the use of quota and feed-in tariff systems, saying the latter is being adjusted to ensure excessive incentives are not given to mature technologies.
Egypt, on behalf of the ARAB GROUP, highlighted Doha as a turning point in regional efforts to address climate change.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested building on existing mechanisms or guidelines, such as national communications, and applying these, rather than establishing new ones.
INDIA, with CHINA, said further guidance on NDCs should be in the context of Paris Agreement Article 3 , and called for technical work on how equity and CBDR inform NDC preparation processes.
SAUDI ARABIA and AUSTRALIA expressed disappointment that agreement was not reached.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, indicated that he could agree to the proposal with minor amendments.
On the expedited procedure for the mechanisms, NEW ZEALAND, opposed by SAMOA, suggested that its link to the appeal makes it credible.
CHINA, with IRAN, KUWAIT, BRAZIL and ARGENTINA said it was inappropriate to give ERTs, a simple fact finding body, a triggering role.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported: a process to scale up the ambition of mitigation pledges; a second commitment period; a Durban mandate for a legally-binding agreement in accordance with the Bali Action Plan; operationalizing the new institutions established in Cancun; and reviewing the adequacy of the long-term global goal for emission reductions.
The UK noted the absence of publications on national adaptation strategies and, with Cuba and others, stressed the link between adaptation planning and integration into sustainable development.
On Wednesday, 12 June, Armenia, on behalf of a group of countries from Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova , said the group was seeking clarification on the definition of the term "developing countries," and on their status in the context of UNFCCC decisions, including those prepared at COP-6.
Stressing the central role of equity in the negotiations, INDIA reported on a workshop on climate change and equity in April 2012 in New Delhi, India.
Observers noted that the EU ef bf bds efforts to fold two agenda items under SBI and SBSTA on adverse effects and response measures into just one had received short shrift from Saudi Arabia and others that place great emphasis on these particular issues.
Norway, Sweden and Chile stressed the need to follow IPCC procedures and go through this text as had been done with the rest of the SPM, while Germany suggested taking the text back to the informal group.
The text proposed by the EU and G-77/CHINA on Terms of Reference for a workshop on P&amp;Ms was not adopted.
Grenada, for AOSIS, identified priorities, such as: increasing the level of ambition in mitigation commitments; approving the modalities for the review of the global long-term goal; and shaping the architecture of the Green Climate Fund, the Adaptation Committee and the TEC.
Several delegations, including CHINA, KUWAIT, INDIA, COSTA RICA, the PHILIPPINES, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, acknowledged the cooperative efforts of non-Annex I Parties and endorsed their expanded reporting responsibilities.
The EU and JAPAN called for an efficient process, with NORWAY proposing that workshops be held immediately prior to sessions of the subsidiary bodies.
The EU and AUSTRALIA stressed accelerating submission of initial communications, assisted by GEF.
Responding to a US request for clarification on contradictions in P&amp;Ms, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by VENEZUELA, noted GHG-intensive energy subsidies and taxes, and commitments to reduce petroleum use alongside increasing domestic production.
The US, the EU and others supported exploring the idea of sectoral approaches.
On the tasks of the Executive Board, SAMOA, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and the EU highlighted the need for the Board to take into account information from Parties, accredited observers and stakeholders when reviewing CDM projects.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said time allotted to agenda items should be guided by the topics’ complexity, and highlighted transparency negotiations as cross-cutting, complex, and time-consuming.
The US, supported by JAPAN, said that including scientific and technological expertise could lead to duplication of the SBSTA’s work.
Canada, the EU, Japan and Switzerland, opposed by the G-77/China, preferred to consider adaptation and mitigation under one agenda item.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, asked to delete the reference to future protocols or amendments from the last bullet on page 5, relating to the effects of steps under current commitments.
On needs assessment, Canada and the US proposed an integrated approach beyond needs assessment in a narrow sense, to improve the enabling environment for technology transfer.
ECUADOR and the US presented on experiences in assessing risk and vulnerability of agricultural systems to different climate change scenarios at regional, national and local levels, with ECUADOR underscoring the importance of aligning these with broader national strategies.
Nigeria suggested adding: “INDCs submitted by Annex I should be ambitious enough in accordance with IPCC AR5 to result in emission reductions of GHGs equivalent to their total share of global emissions and be made a condition for entry into force of the agreement to be adopted in Paris.” Brazil favored the proposal by the African Group.
She agreed with Egypt that gender-“responsive” policies could also be referred to as gender-“sensitive.” Egypt, supported by Saudi Arabia, stressed the need to refer not just to innovative finance, but to finance in general.
The EU, AOSIS, and the G-77/China preferred a focused approach, and suggested holding a technical workshop after COP-10, which would consider submissions by Parties.
Final wording of a redrafted text, as amended by SOUTH AFRICA and the US, removes all reference to a protocol and asks the COP to decide that the AGBM may, in its consideration of a MCP, seek such advice as may be deemed necessary from AG-13.
The US, SWITZERLAND and NEW ZEALAND objected to this proposal.
On the NIR, Co-Chair Paciornik said the EU, CHINA, PERU and US should elaborate a solution to unresolved differences.
Ghana, supported by Tanzania, India, Benin, Nigeria, Algeria, Zimbabwe, Togo, Congo, Kenya, Bolivia, and WG I Vice-Chair Driouech, called for amending the text to clearly state that financial support for chapter scientists should be conditional on additional funds being mobilized for the Programme and that IPCC Chair Lee would lead the resource mobilization effort.
CHINA said he interpreted the US and AUSTRALIA proposals as an attempt to exact commitments from developing countries.
India, with China, said further guidance on NDCs should be in the context of Paris Agreement Article 3 , and called for technical work on how equity and CBDRRC inform NDC preparation processes.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the SBSTA should provide scientific and technical advice and develop frameworks and methodologies to satisfy the Convention.
PAKISTAN said elements should stem from the party-driven process rather than “exclusive consultations.” VENEZUELA, with SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized that balance cannot be achieved without an outcome under the AWG-KP.
On a proposal by Canada on cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy, the G-77/China said the item was incorrectly worded on the provisional agenda, and that it should refer to the report of the workshop on this issue, not to a proposal.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, the African Group and the US stated the draft conclusions do not capture progress.
JAPAN emphasized that there was no guarantee that the US would agree to the assumed level, warning this would undermine the political durability of the process.
The US, supported by AOSIS, responded that the SBSTA had instructed the IPCC to provide a technical paper.
The PHILIPPINES inquired into strategies to decouple emissions from development, with AUSTRALIA pointing to a carbon price and the EU urging global action to avoid carbon leakage.
CANADA and the PHILIPPINES called for more discussion on individual party and collective reviews.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, and Egypt, for the African Group, noted concern on “delinking” textual language from the Convention and dilution of Convention principles, particularly on differentiation.
Highlighting the large number of parties that have associated themselves with the Copenhagen Accord, the US suggested accepting both the Russian Federation and the G-77/China proposals.
ZAMBIA, TOGO, MALI, INDONESIA and others highlighted capacity building.
Thailand, Kuwait, the Russian Federation, the Solomon Islands, Saudi Arabia and Mali announced that they had recently ratified the Convention.
Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries , highlighted the work of the LDC Expert Group, funding for adaptation, and management of the LDC Fund.
Following proposals from the PHILIPPINES, the US cautioned against re-opening agreed text.
New Zealand, supported by Chile, suggested that responsibility for non-permanence be taken by host-country governments, and noted that accounting for timing of emissions from HWP may reduce non-permanence risks and make CDM LULUCF projects more attractive.
Brazil, with India and Ecuador but opposed by Saudi Arabia, called for acknowledgement that past emissions are responsible for current warming but that past emissions alone are unlikely to raise GMST.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the SBSTA and TAP-T should identify the best available technologies in the energy, transport, industrial, forestry and waste management sectors.
 In discussing this proposal, the EU, supported by SLOVENIA, proposed that an MCP could be a “standing” group.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU suggested annexing a summary of conclusions and recommendations to full reports.
 Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of limiting discussions to issues related to further quantified commitments for Annex I countries.
He noted that extreme weather events and their negative impacts are apparent everywhere, including in Uganda, for fishermen on the Lake Victoria who experience reduced catch, as well as in his native Norway, which experiences dramatic flooding, shrinking Arctic ice and other events.
Switzerland, the EU, Peru, for AILAC, the US, Norway and Japan supported the suspension option with a specific deadline, with some suggesting 2018.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized the need for: accelerating work on, and making funds available for, NAP implementation; ensuring sustainable funds for the Adaptation Fund; strengthening capacity-building institutions and networks; and undertaking a science-based review of the global long-term goal.
Singapore and Japan commended the progress made by ICAO and IMO.
The US, CANADA, INDIA and others objected to EU-proposed text linking climate change and sea-level rise to the Millennium Review in September 2005.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, proposed a new multi-window mechanism that would include insurance, rehabilitation and compensation, and risk management.
JAPAN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, suggested calling on ICAO and IMO to continue addressing bunker fuel emissions.
 Chile, New Zealand and several others highlighted the role of technology in long-term cooperation.
NIGERIA said if the Bureau is to be expanded the African Group will make its own request because it has the most members.
Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that funding should be over and above official development assistance , derived from public sources and comprise 1.5% of GDP from developed countries with the private sector playing a complementary role.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested a new guiding principle that all investments become low-emission and resilient to climate impacts in the context of the mitigation goal.
Mali, for the African Group, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted the urgency of textual negotiations.
On consideration of Article 7.2 , the US, Norway, Saudi Arabia and the EU questioned the timing for the submission of national communications and where this should be treated.
The G-77/CHINA and AFRICA GROUP expressed disappointment at the absence of a deadline for completing the work programme.
Initially, the EU, Russian Federation, AOSIS, LDCs and the G-77/China supported starting discussions based on this text.
These took place in Bonn, Germany in April, May-June and August, and in Tianjin, China, in October.
The Gambia, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested requesting the Secretariat to compile and synthesize the outcomes and recommendations from the regional workshops held so far, together with the implementation of these outcomes and recommendations.
On objectives and scope, the G-77/CHINA and Barbados, for AOSIS, said that language on the provision of financial resources to take nationally appropriate mitigation and adaptation actions should not be limited in scope.
SOUTH AFRICA and NORWAY called for the temperature goal to be reflected in the general section.
Canada, Australia, Japan and the US called for an approach identifying functions prior to discussion of form.
The Russian Federation added that if Japan insisted on including this provision, it would propose bracketing the entire document.
During the SBI closing plenary on 16 June, the meeting was suspended when Saudi Arabia and the US identified the need for further work on language on observer participation.
CHINA, with SAMOA, BRAZIL, CHILE and VENEZUELA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, the US and NEW ZEALAND, argued that the mandate of the enforcement body should include Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 .
Sudan, for the G-77/China, called for an equitable outcome in Copenhagen.
AUSTRALIA called for progress on biennial update reporting guidelines to create a framework to enable developing countries to get started on the process and suggested, with the EU, January 2014 as a date for the submission of the first biennial update report.
The EU and other Parties reaffirmed their objection to Canada 92s original proposal on accounting for cleaner energy exports.
SOUTH AFRICA identified lack of clarity on the legal form of the AWG-LCA’s outcome as the “elephant in the room” and COLOMBIA identified it as one of the problems preventing success in Copenhagen.
On Friday, 16 June, SBI adopted its Report of the Session , containing conclusions that, inter alia: welcome the offers of France to host SB-13 and Morocco to host COP-7.
The US noted that it is uncertain “what the configuration of Copenhagen might be regarding the fate of the Kyoto Protocol” and suggested addressing this through language that: “the COP shall take decisions necessary to enable the applicability of the CDM under this agreement.” Algeria noted that countries wishing to use the CDM could ratify the Protocol.
The EU, with JAMAICA and CANADA, identified non-Annex I national communications as a source of information on those countries 92 needs.
CANADA, the US and the EU said budget decisions taken while the UNFCCC is in a "transition period" could set a precedent for future decisions, and, with AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, requested a breakdown of costs associated with the three options in the Chair 92s paper.
SAUDI ARABIA bracketed a US proposal to reference an AGBM roundtable and the IPCC Oslo workshop on the economic impacts of Annex I actions on all countries.
SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA said paragraphs on background information and on future methodological work should be bracketed until the completion of IPCC TAR discussions.
GCF Board Member Ayman Shasly, Saudi Arabia, and Seyni Nafo, SCF Member, Mali, provided updates on work undertaken by the GCF and SCF.
On monitoring and evaluation, Mexico, for AILAC and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested launching a party-driven process on metrics.
India, for the LMDCs, with Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested: replacing “starting in 2019, should consider quantitative considerations of MOI” with “shall provide, by the first quarter of 2015, information under Annex II,” and referencing the provision of MOI to developing countries for a timely preparation of their INDCs.
Following a proposal by CROATIA, delegates discussed the status of Yugoslavia in relation to the Convention.
The Netherlands, supported by the US, proposed inserting a new sentence on the  .
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA and others, and opposed by SWITZERLAND, expressed preference for separate draft decisions, one on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and another on Protocol Article 3.14.
China, for the G-77/China, supported by Brazil and Bolivia, suggested 1 July 2011 as the date for Annex I sixth national communications.
The EU, US and CANADA stated that draft conclusions are without prejudice to whether there are one or two decisions.
Regarding general comments on the outline , Japan requested addressing the social cost of carbon in the sectoral chapters, while Saudi Arabia requested deleting reference to the social cost of carbon from the WGII outline altogether.
President Vladimir Putin, Russian Federation, highlighted that it is possible to ensure economic development and take care of the environment, saying Russia stands ready to exchange energy efficiency solutions.
On vehicles, the G-77/China, Norway, the EU and others said that parties should be able to choose the most appropriate vehicle for their communications.
When considering the Draft Guidance on Methodologies for Adjustments under Article 5.2, the EU, with Switzerland and Slovakia, said the trial period on inventory review would provide the IPCC with the information on problems to be addressed.
BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA underscored the importance of rights and participation of local populations.
Reporting on relevant initiatives, SOUTH AFRICA highlighted an informal ministerial meeting in Bonn, Germany, in May 2012.
Highlighting the spirit of the Marrakesh Accords, the EU, Russia and others proposed that JI projects should be able to use CDM 92s designated operational entities, project design document and methodologies.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, said agreement on a second commitment period in Durban is “absolutely essential.” Papua New Guinea, for the Coalition of Rainforest Nations, identified creating a new mechanism under the Protocol as the most effective way to implement REDD+.
India warned against deriving headline statements from medium confidence levels, while the EU explained that the reason for the medium confidence level relates to the incomplete approaches adopted by old studies.
Clarifying its understanding of differentiation, AUSTRALIA, with the EU, noted that a genuine aggregate review should include all parties.
TIMOR LESTE stressed the importance of addressing risk assessment and key methodologies in particularly vulnerable LDCs.
In opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, said the Kyoto Protocol is an essential element for the future of the climate change regime and urged serious quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives  from Annex I parties.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for: reaching agreement on a five-year second commitment period with 1990 as the single, legally-binding base year; agreeing on LULUCF accounting rules; identifying feasible ways to address surplus assigned amount units ; agreeing on a transparent process to transform mitigation pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives ; and increasing the aggregate level of ambition.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested bracketing text in the section on finance, in particular with regard to developed country pledges for short-term financing.
The US, supported by Tanzania, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia, suggested combining the two proposals into a one referring to the IPCC exploring ways to provide enhanced technical and administrative support, including access to scientific literature, particularly to developing country CLAs and LAs, in recognition of the increasing burden of a comprehensive assessment.
Alberto Pedro D’Alotto, for Argentina, on behalf of the G-77/China, described the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol as a cornerstone of efforts to address climate change, adding that non-Annex I parties also need to join these efforts with comparable commitments.
 Venezuela, Kuwait, Colombia, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iran, China and Zaire preferred Alternative B in A/AC.237/L.22/Rev.2, which ensures that substantive decisions, including the adoption of protocols, are taken by consensus.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted a number of important outcomes on: Convention Article 6; adaptation in the context of decision 1/CP.10; the Adaptation Fund and its review; and LDCs.
JAPAN and the G-77/CHINA agreed to hold bilateral consultations on the matter of reinstatement of mechanisms ef bf bd eligibility.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said assistance should be provided through existing mechanisms, called for a legally binding regime applicable to all parties, and stressed the need to update the existing regime in line with 21st century realities.
The G-77/CHINA called for: GEF adherence to COP guidance; no funding of activities inconsistent with FCCC principles; and, with EGYPT, attention to adaptation measures.
On first order problems, the US explained that annual reports include information on both inventories and the assigned amount and, opposed by the G-77/China, suggested that first-order problems only refer to the former.
Describing the Protocol as a standard for mitigation by developed countries, Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with the introduction of options not based on the continued legal existence and effectiveness of the Protocol.
A new negotiating text will be drafted, based on submissions by the G-77/CHINA, US, EU, AOSIS and others.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed that the Protocol has established the institutional and governance structures that “are and must remain at the heart of the climate regime.” Australia, for the Umbrella Group and Belarus, stressed the need to improve understanding and increase the transparency of all mitigation commitments in the Copenhagen Accord and urged working in tandem with the AWG-LCA.
AOSIS, the LDCs and the African Group supported a five-year commitment period.
Mali, supported by Switzerland, Guinea, and Chad, suggested that the communications team award certificates of recognition to country focal points for their hard work, to motivate their continued and increased involvement.
CHINA, supported by KUWAIT and others, said a facilitator would not be able to visit and confer with all Parties.
On homework, the LDCs and CHINA called for targeted submissions, with SOUTH AFRICA suggesting inviting submissions after COP 22.
94 With the US and Saudi Arabia contesting Co-Chair Parry b4s proposed information from the Stern Review, the section was bracketed with opposition from Austria, the EC and others.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted progress on adaptation and integration of capacity-building priorities across the Convention.
TUVALU proposed three dimensions: a quantitative goal of stabilization; a qualitative goal including the right to survive and transition to a low-emission society; and a functional dimension describing urgency, cooperative action, financial support and compensation for impacts to LDCs and SIDS.
Bolivia, for ALBA, supported the G-77/CHINA and inter alia, lamented lack of progress on drivers of deforestation, research and systematic observation, adaptation, agriculture, and water.
With the support of the G-77/China, but opposed by the EU, Japan, and Australia, he supported inserting this item on the agenda.
Opposed by the US and EU, it suggested using the proposal as the basis for discussion.
BRAZIL, supported by AUSTRALIA, the US and SWITZERLAND, suggested noting health co-benefits of mitigation policies.
BRAZIL expressed concern with “giving a blank check” to credits from forest management for compliance before even knowing emission reduction targets, and recalled Brazil’s proposal to limit the use of credits from the LULUCF sector for compliance under Protocol Article 3.1.
Canada, supported by France, proposed that Asia and Africa clarify why they are asking for increased Bureau representation prior to the informal group meeting.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the US, suggested creating a distinction between various consequences based on the branch that would deal with it.
The COP President invited parties to form a “huddle” to address diverging views around language in paragraph 4 of the document on a Durban Platform  regarding the words “legal outcome.” Parties reconvened to replace the phrase with “agreed outcome with legal force.” India and the EU said they could support the agreed language.
On reporting of supplementary information under Article 7, the EU, supported by Samoa and opposed by the US, Australia, Japan and New Zealand, proposed text for a section on "domestic programmes," which requires reporting on domestic policies and measures as well as on the domestic system for monitoring legal entities 92 participation in international emissions trading.
The LMDCs, JAPAN and VIET NAM proposed inviting the Chairs of the subsidiary and constituted bodies to report to the APA.
These discussions continued in presidency consultations on adaptation, co-facilitated by Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister of the Environment, Energy and Housing, Finland, and Lamin Dibba, Minister of Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources, The Gambia.
The Cook Islands, for the AOSIS, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, supported the Co-Chairs taking lead on identifying further areas for streamlining.
Japan emphasized the need to ensure effectiveness, and with Norway, called for an inclusive one-track process.
The EU, with NEW ZEALAND, favored a fourth national communication deadline of 2005 and a strengthened reporting process leading to the period 2008-2012.
On the level of ambition, Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested: a process to increase ambition; technical workshops; and further consideration at COP 18.
On information submitted under Article 7.2 , the EU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed reporting on "demonstrable progress."
SAUDI ARABIA and CANADA proposed considering national circumstances, and NEW ZEALAND suggested looking at examples of national policies that address least-cost mitigation approaches.
The UK, with GERMANY and others, said governments needed guidance on required contributions.
Norway, with AILAC and the EU, supported establishing a compliance committee no later than COP 21.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to work on the basis of the ADP text, and called for a balanced and equal treatment of all elements of the Durban mandate, and an outcome under the Convention in accordance with its principles and provisions.
On proposed consolidated text on safeguards, Ecuador, Bolivia, the Philippines, India, Mexico and many others highlighted the need for a safeguard on avoiding forest conversion.
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India, and China, welcomed the formulation of the guidelines and the development of a workable implementation of the Paris Agreement, but reminded that the IPCC report shows much work remains to be done.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized that outcomes of the SED include support of the 1.5     c2 b0C long-term global goal and expressed dismay that the actions of a few countries prevented the communication of these findings to the COP.
SOUTH AFRICA called for sustained financial support for developing countries to implement adaptation plans and, with INDONESIA, said these should be integrated into development plans.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, proposed deleting reference to the evolution process of the IPCC 2006 Guidelines, and the US, supported by a number of other parties, suggested a footnote to the overview chapter on IPCC guidelines.
While parties agreed to request submissions on extending the share of proceeds to JI and emissions trading, Ukraine and the Russian Federation expressed reservations at the closing plenary, stating that this proposal would hinder the implementation of these mechanisms in their countries.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, OMAN, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and ALGERIA, stressed that all developing countries are affected by negative consequences of response measures and that efforts to “sub-divide” developing countries are inconsistent with the Convention.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that it would be very difficult to cover the wide range of technical and scientific issues with only 15 experts.
Switzerland and Australia noted the need to avoid duplication of IPCC efforts.
The issue of the adverse impacts of climate change and of response measures to climate change on developing countries under Protocol Article 3.14 was taken up in SBI plenary on 8 November, with a report on the outcomes of a workshop on reporting methodologies held in Abu Dhabi, UAE, from 4-6 September 2006 .
The EU, supported by ARGENTINA, AOSIS and the US, suggested that the Secretariat invite contributions from the Parties and prepare a paper for SB-23.
Nicaragua, for SICA, proposed adopting a programme on education and training under Convention Article 6 and said priority should be given to the consideration of loss and damage over risk assessment.
Supporting the G-77/China, SAUDI ARABIA requested the Secretariat to exercise caution when making statements on behalf of the UNFCCC, and ensure that views of all Parties are adequately reflected.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported forwarding the text to the COP, noting that it can be used as a basis for further discussion and expressed confidence that the remaining issues can be resolved in the COP.
The Chair suggested amending China"s proposal to read, "Emphasizing that...." The EU, supported by the US, suggested replacing "the most important" with "is an essential."
India, China, Saudi Arabia and others opposed a new protocol.
Developed countries called for differentiation, and Australia and Japan suggested that non-Annex I parties with a high gross domestic product  should join Annex I.
Switzerland, supported by the US, preferred replacing “unilateral” with “unconditional.” Switzerland also suggested specifying that parties with less capability may also communicate enhanced efforts contingent on provision of support.
 SWEDEN urged other industrialized countries to match the EU 92s 2020 commitments and welcomed the increasing engagement of US society, encouraging the US to take on binding emission reductions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for the ADP to outline a clear plan for taking forward the work required to deliver its mandate.
NORWAY and the EU supported moving on with AWG ef bf bds work while addressing information gaps.
The US, Malaysia and Switzerland said the IPCC special report could provide guidance in continuing the work on implementing FCCC Article 4.5 .
CHINA called for all other Annex I countries to propose QELROs with time frames as the EU has done.
 Ecuador, for the Group of 77 and China , outlined that COP 23 needs to achieve progress on, inter alia: the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue; work on loss and damage; financial support for the Warsaw International Mechanism on loss and damage associated with climate change impacts ; an outcome on the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement; and clarifying eligibility criteria for the Global Environment Facility  and the GCF.
 The Chair called on AGBM to consider the submissions on general commitments and guiding objectives for P&amp;Ms. SAMOA called for a coordination mechanism to assist Annex I Parties in implementing their commitments, as proposed in the AOSIS protocol.
Chile, for AILAC, among others, supported the principle of “no backsliding.” Norway said elements on accounting and periodicity should be part of the mitigation section.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a process to strengthen emission reduction pledges communicated to the UNFCCC, while noting that recognition of pledges should not be used to undermine the AWG-KP track.
Colombia and Cameroon stressed that discussions of methodologies cannot be separated from discussions of financial mechanisms.
Switzerland, with Germany, said participation of all Bureau members is important and urged avoiding a situation that would “discriminate” against the participation by some members.
Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States , and Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries , called for stabilizing concentrations below 350 parts per million  and limiting temperature increases to below 1.5ºC.
GHANA, SENEGAL and VENEZUELA noted that time is needed for additional suggestions for the compilation and, with SRI LANKA and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, called for a framework compilation to circulate to capitals before AGBM-6.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted the progress made on loss and damage, on Convention Article 6, and on non-Annex I parties national communications and praised the utility of the forum on the impact of implementation of response measures and the efforts of the GEF towards national communications.
The Lead Authors, the UK, Germany, Italy, Chile, Norway and others stressed the underlying science and the importance of conveying the information on documented impacts to policy-makers.
CHINA identified issues missing from the Secretariat’s synthesis report but covered in the G-77/China paper, including transparency and climate change effectiveness.
The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change  seminar on the development and transfer of environmentally sound technologies for adaptation to climate change convened from 14-16 June 2005, at the Hilton Hotel in Tobago, Trinidad and Tobago.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for deep and ambitious reduction commitments on behalf of Annex I countries, and for ensuring that all efforts under the Protocol do not impose constraints on the most vulnerable countries.
OPENING STATEMENTS: Many speakers, including the EU, UMBRELLA GROUP and G-77/CHINA, urged progress on national adaptation plans and loss and damage.
The EU said the reporting requirements should be elaborated within the current guidelines, while the US supported making reference to such requirements being defined in the guidelines under Article 7, in accordance with the relevant decisions of the COP or COP/MOP.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, called for separate discussions on capacity building for developing countries and countries with economies in transition.
EGYPT, PAKISTAN and others called for the consideration of how to conclude institutional arrangements between the Green Climate Fund  and the COP.
On the confidence levels, the US, Saudi Arabia, China and India proposed including only high confidence terms.
The US, supported by GERMANY and the UK, proposed that the SBI should keep the arrangements of the conference under review and recommends that any new, substantive proposals concerning these arrangements be communicated well in advance of the start of the conference.
Various developed countries, including Australia, the EU, the US and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, suggested this question warrants further discussion and requires consideration of, inter alia, lessons learned.
In the afternoon, the SBI met to discuss several items, including: non-Annex I financial matters; capacity building; national communications; and a request by a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova  regarding their status under the UNFCCC.
Maggie Opondo, University of Nairobi, presented on a project initiated in Kenya, Mozambique and Rwanda, funded by the Global Environment Facility  and UNDP.
Actions to minimize the impacts of climate change: The US and UK said implementing the Protocol is the most important step.
On geological storage, BELGIUM, with the UK, called for a specific reference to secure reservoirs.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by Norway, requested removing reference to fossil fuel prices and, supported by Norway, to retain reference to carbon capture and storage .
Switzerland, opposed by Canada, proposed an annual post-verification trading system, wherein emissions trading would be limited to Assigned Amount Units  surplus to the Party 92s allocation plan.
Cyprus, for the EU, expressed disappointment with the lack of distinction in the informal overview note between issues mandated by Durban and other issues.
The proposal was opposed by CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA who, acknowledging Bolivia’s concerns, emphasized that they do not fall within the remit of the group.
Brazil proposed party-only workshops and the US a “non-intrusive” facilitated sharing of views.
NORWAY suggested that the ADP Co-Chairs prepare a reflection note for the Presidency, which the G-77/CHINA opposed at this time.
On loss and damage, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, with the LDCs, proposed moving text on loss and damage to a new section.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for clarity on the organization of work, noting that many of the items on the proposed agenda had already been addressed.
The EU and the US said a dialogue would inform the next round of INDCs.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a COP decision, as it would mark a clear path towards a stronger outcome at the next COP.
CANADA highlighted links between the AWG and AWGLCA and, with ARGENTINA, called for coordinating the processes.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by SAMOA, the EU, the US and NEW ZEALAND, proposed moving towards 93implementation of decision 8/CP4 94  rather than towards 93negotiations.
Nauru, for AOSIS, proposed a workshop on common accounting rules to be held in Bangkok and indicated that it should be a full negotiation session.
New Zealand proposed decreasing the commitment period reserve while Tuvalu supported increasing it.
INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA called for technical papers.
Supported by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN explained that the different years should not be viewed as base years, but as reference years, and that their inclusion was useful for the sake of comparability and clarity.
Argentina, supported by Saudi Arabia and the Russian Federation, and opposed by Austria, Peru, Switzerland and the US, suggested that methodologies be referred to as revised methodologies.
Outlining their proposal, Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted, inter alia: their proposed expert group on capacity building; a plan of action for implementation of the capacity building framework; and performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the framework.
ICELAND announced a goal of being a carbon neutral society by 2050, while JAPAN set out a goal of 60-80% reductions by 2050, and CANADA stated the objective of meeting 90% of electricity needs from non-emitting sources by 2020.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, welcomed outcomes on several agenda items, including on the Nairobi work programme and on research and systematic observation.
  Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that the negotiations have not reflected the sense of urgency about climate change and called for progress on the AWG-KP and developed country commitments.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern that several Annex I parties had reported 2014 emission levels that exceeded their 1990 levels and called for strengthening the WIM.
 The US expressed thanks to Germany for her "adroit handling" of the text and supported the redraft despite "strong views" on paragraph VII, requests to the Secretariat.
Egypt, supported by Zimbabwe, said the statement’s starting point should be the impacts of 1.5 c2 b0C, not the difference between global warming of 1.5 c2 b0C compared to 2 c2 b0C.
After the elections, Saudi Arabia, China and Tajikistan expressed concern that, as a result of decreasing the number of WG III Vice-Chairs because of the increase in WG III Co-Chairs, the Asian regional group is not represented on the bureau of WG III.
Barbados, for AOSIS, expressed willingness to consider more frequent communication of certain issues like GHG inventories, and suggested different time tables for different aspects of national communications.
Several developed countries, including the EU and US, opposed references to the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said recent climate disasters in SIDS are evidence of their special circumstances, and that the UN Environment Gap Report shows it is not too late to get “us back on track to limit warming to 1.5 c2 b0C.”
The EU, Australia, Japan, Canada, Czech Republic, Brazil, Switzerland, South Africa and Slovakia expressed favor for Alternative A, provided that a decision to adopt a protocol would be taken by a 3/4 majority.
On Thursday, 5 November, a contact group discussed three draft decisions proposed by the US, the G-77/China and the EU .
Nepal, for the LDCs, proposed a workshop on adaptation and stressed the need to clarify added value of the new agreement for addressing adaptation in developing countries.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested highlighting that the GCF is “an institution to stay.” The LMDCs sought for ways to help the GCF Board with transforming the pledges made by countries into finalized support.
  BASIC  countries convened in Durban, South Africa, from 19-20 May 2018.
On economic diversification, in presentations, the EU outlined its policy process including assessing impacts, and Maldives highlighted the difficulties of dependence on tourism that is sensitive to transport policies and carbon taxes.
China, Sudan, Egypt, Iran, the Russian Federation and others supported the proposal.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Tanzania, Egypt, Pakistan, India, Mali, and Bolivia, expressed concern that the final draft had not been released well in advance of the meeting, noting that his delegation had invested time and effort reviewing the FGD.
Given the recent attention from the media, Belgium, supported by France, called for the new range for the AR4 warming projections to be clearly stated within the text to enable a straightforward comparison to the previous TAR range of 1.4-5.8 baC.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Uganda, for the LDCs, and EGYPT called for attribution of submissions.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said delegates first need to resolve the internal regulations of a protocol.
With EGYPT, ARGENTINA, SRI LANKA and the AFRICAN GROUP, he said funding should come from public sources, be additional to official development assistance, and be subject to MRV.
The PHILIPPINES and ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA called for additional refinement of economic analysis, including other analytical tools besides modeling.
The EU suggested designing ARD definitions specifically for the purpose of implementing Article 3.3, and the UK raised the possibility of customizing the IPCC scenarios.
 The US, supported by GERMANY, proposed that an additional two weeks be requested.
COLOMBIA, opposed by SAMOA, supported equal treatment of forestry in the CDM.
Spain favored considering climate change and natural disasters, and Australia called for addressing cross-cutting aspects of relevance to more than one Working Group.
ETHIOPIA and VENEZUELA stressed that parties have the right to suggest new text.
However, Saudi Arabia, with India, Venezuela, Algeria, Kuwait, Oman, Nigeria, Ecuador and China, opposed a contact group and preferred that the COP President or a Vice-President hold informal consultations.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, called for full implementation of the CGE work programme, expressing concern over the lack of funding for regional workshops.
Co-Facilitator Felson suggested the submissions also address further work, which Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, NORWAY and others supported.
 The G-77/CHINA: Manuel Dengo, Ambassador of Costa Rica to the United Nations, said developed country Parties must strengthen their commitments in Articles 4.2  and , including elaboration of policies and measures and QELROs with specified time frames.
The US, supported by Canada, also emphasized limiting the discussion to initial activities.
  The 18th Brazil, India, South Africa and China  Ministerial Meeting took place from 7-8 August 2014, in New Delhi, India, and concluded with the adoption of a joint statement emphasizing the need to finalize the elements of a draft negotiating text for the 2015 agreement at COP 20.
Kenya, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the geographic distribution of projects should be improved, particularly for Africa.
SAUDI ARABIA and IRAN supported a cooperative approach, particularly in addressing economic concerns, while the UK favored an individualistic one.
The Gambia, for LDCs, expressed “dismay” that the GEF is dictating to countries which operating entity they should use.
CANADA and JAPAN noted that it must be flexible and evolve over time.
Kyrgyzstan, on behalf of MOUNTAIN LANDLOCKED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES, with NEPAL, urged consideration of mountainous ecosystems in negotiations.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, proposed fixing the date at this session.
CHINA, supporting INDIA and the LMDCs, called for equal treatment of the two workstreams launched in 2012 and lamented the fact that the Doha Amendment had yet to enter into force.
France, on behalf of the EU, said "simplified" leaves a broad scope for interpretation, and suggested that developing countries could use IPCC default guidelines.
NORWAY, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NEW ZEALAND and others noted that where emission reductions take place is irrelevant for the atmosphere.
Brazil, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , expressed concern about developed countries unilaterally creating new criteria for funding under the GCF, stressing that this practice has no legal basis.
The G-77/CHINA called for reference to remedies and, with TUVALU, highlighted that technology is not the only remedy.
The US, supported by JAPAN and the EU, called for collaboration with ICAO and IMO specifically in studies on bunker emissions.
CHINA said public investment is the key to climate technology R&amp;D. INDIA showed delegates a 5 Watt LED light bulb, saying it produces as much light as a 40 Watt incandescent light bulb or an 8 Watt compact fluorescent one.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed that: NDC guidance should fully operationalize differentiation; guidance on adaptation communication should define a minimum common set of elements; and the group’s preferred options in the draft text on transparency should be re-inserted.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the conclusion of the three REDD+ items and the rich sharing of information at the agricultural workshops, and expressed disappointment with the lack of a substantive conclusion on the 2013-2015 review.
In the opening SBI Plenary on Thursday, 4 June, AOSIS and the G-77/China emphasized the need for the SCCF to support adaptation activities, and with the EU and Ghana, underscored the importance of providing finance to countries that are not eligible for support under existing UNFCCC funds.
VENEZUELA, supported by CHINA, BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, raised concerns over the table, stressing that sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP addresses “various approaches” to enhance mitigation.
The G-77/China, opposed by Canada and Japan, urged limiting the scope of the decision to Annex I Parties.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted REDD and carbon capture and storage  under the CDM.
JAPAN and SWITZERLAND proposed a single body exercising its facilitative and enforcement functions in a graduated manner.
Several parties, including Switzerland and New Zealand, noted the need for clarity on  , which have only been agreed for the first commitment period.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the G-77/CHINA, suggested establishing a clearing house.
The EU and Belarus supported further consideration of the proposal.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said a shared vision should include the right of developing countries to sustainable development and highlighted the need for adaptation policies, including risk reduction strategies.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted recent accomplishments, including the awarding of the first certified emissions reductions .
Mexico, for the EIG, regretted the time wasted on adopting agendas; welcomed progress on the participation of observer organizations; called for avoiding overlapping agenda items; and expressed concern that the lengthy debate on loss and damage “reinterprets and overstretches” “clear” Cancun Agreements.
Supporting this, the US cautioned against creating a hierarchy regarding the importance of products, while Saudi Arabia stressed that the SPMs and the SYR are the main products.
NEW ZEALAND and the EU said the COP/MOP was the central policy-making body, but should not directly intervene in a specific case by taking over the judicial/ legal body 92s functions.
CANADA, supported by SWEDEN, proposed a trial period to test CRF tables.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored the importance of discussing the legal form, stressing that this is relevant for both governments and the private sector.
Bolivia, supported by Cuba, took offense at being given 60 minutes to decide on the “lives of millions of people,” as well as at the non-democratic process and imposition of the agreement.
Opposed by the EU and Norway, China proposed deleting a bullet point indicating,  inter alia, that mitigation efforts during the next few decades will to a large extent determine the long-term temperature increase and climate change impacts.
The EIG and the EU called for a two-day workshop.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted direct linkages between the AWG-KP and other UNFCCC processes, particularly the AWG-LCA and the second review of the Kyoto Protocol under Article 9.
Costa Rica spoke for countries belonging to the Central American Integration System, consisting of Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and the Dominican Republic.
CHINA, with the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and NEW ZEALAND, said Parties should be the main initiators.
Austria and the US suggested attending to this in the rules of procedure rather than in the definitions.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted a need for comparable progress across the board and called for stronger engagement on key finance-related issues.
Subsequently in the contact group, the PHILIPPINES regretted that after a year of negotiations on the issue, agreement had not been reached, while the EU noted that the proposal on holding workshops was recently introduced.
Algeria, also for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized that enhanced political will from Annex I parties is “the only thing that can break the deadlock” facing the second commitment period.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO said Brazil’s proposal on QELROs provided a logical way forward and Germany’s proposal provided impetus to the work of the AGBM.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a 2015 agreement that is legally binding and applicable to all, limits the temperature increase to below 1.5 c2 b0C, and clearly quantifies mitigation efforts.
BRAZIL said it is unclear why specific proposals should receive specific time slots and, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that no concepts incompatible with the BAP should be introduced.
NEW ZEALAND, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, said discussions on methodologies on the impact of implementation of the Protocol should be included under the ef bf bdprojections ef bf bd topic.
e2 80 9d Switzerland, Bolivia, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Australia favored replacing e2 80 9cCO2 e2 80 9d with e2 80 9cGHG e2 80 9d emissions.
The US noted China’s proposal would entail renegotiating Convention Article 3.5, which does not prohibit unilateral measures that are consistent with agreements under the World Trade Organization .
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, announced a submission on non-carbon benefits.
The Russian Federation and Election Procedures Group Co-Chair Richard Odingo  recommended that the WMO rules should be used as a model and, with Austria and Switzerland, urged fair regional representation on the Bureau.
SOUTH AFRICA underlined that adoption of conclusions requires consensus and said that, in light of the African Group’s reservations, there was no consensus.
Barbados, for AOSIS, underscored the need to increase resources to fight climate change, provide funding for implementation of development plans and develop direct and simplified access to finance, especially for small island developing states  and LDCs.
 Leaders of Commonwealth countries convened from 27-29 November in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, for the biannual Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, said the discussion on afforestation and reforestation under the CDM must maintain the social, environmental and economic integrity of the mechanism.
BANGLADESH supported regional innovation centers, with INDIA proposing a network of such centers.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said a clear mechanism must be established for the use of scientific information, and noted that SBSTA should not be selective when presenting information.
On preambular paragraphs on special needs, El Salvador requested adding “and the Central American isthmus,” and the African Group called exclusion of African countries “a red line.” Kyrgyzstan asked to include the vulnerability of mountain areas.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized that setting a goal for governments’ efforts “needs to be substantiated by proven science,” provided by the IPCC.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by many G-77 members and CHINA, said the Kyoto Protocol was the first step in the review process and noted that the group was working on a draft decision.
ARGENTINA and NORWAY agreed to reflect the US 92 concern in the conclusions.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said little time remained for this discussion and preferred the Chair 92s suggestion.
Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, mentioned that it had submitted a protocol for consideration and wants time to discuss it.
On  , Saudi Arabia proposed that the provision exempting SIDS from payment of the registration fee and share of proceeds, as well as that establishing a quota for projects hosted in LDCs, SIDS and African countries, should be extended to all developing countries with fewer than ten registered projects.
Disagreement also persisted on bracketed text supported by BRAZIL on extending the eligibility criteria for afforestation/reforestation project activities and bracketed text supported by SAUDI ARABIA on the inclusion of CCS under the CDM.
BRAZIL said INDCs: should not be interpreted as e2 80 9can expectation of legal terms e2 80 9d; opposed self-differentiation; and, with Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested that reference to equity be made.
In response to the G-77/China 92s suggestion to create a fund to support these activities, Japan and the US recalled that the GEF was the vehicle for this funding.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, looked forward to the further operationalization of the Adaptation Fund through direct access procedures.
On emissions trading, CANADA and AUSTRALIA argued that the chapeau decisions should be brief and reflect Protocol and UNFCCC provisions.
JAPAN, CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed this proposal, however the co-chairs said it would go forward to the COP in this form.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, NORWAY, the US, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and CANADA supported confining the scope of the draft decision to mitigation, with a limited approach to adaptation, such as where mitigation actions deliver adaptation co-benefits.
Sweden, for the EU, called for a binding agreement that incorporates the essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
COLOMBIA, speaking for Chile, Costa Rica and Peru, with BOLIVIA, URUGUAY and TOGO, called for the provision of funds to facilitate the operationalization of the GCF.
During the initial discussion on shared vision, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, supported by the US, suggested incorporating elements of a shared vision into a political statement.
94 After the EU, G-77/China, and other Parties said they supported the text as it stood, Saudi Arabia withdrew its suggestion and the conclusions were adopted without amendment.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, highlighted gaps in the implementation of obligations under the Convention and called for enhancement of support.
Guyana, Paraguay and Papua New Guinea underscored the need to address permanence and leakage, with Australia noting that environmental safeguards should be worked into the operational language.
However, JAPAN noted methodological problems in this category and NEW ZEALAND said the issue of subtraction depends on resolving other issues.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized that the Chair’s text does not reflect the submissions of the G-77/China and that the current text reflects “starting from the beginning.” AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and the US supported using the draft text as the basis for discussions.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, expressed concern that the group 92s suggestions, in particular one regarding the biome approach to the definition of "forest," had not been considered, and that the text as it stands was unbalanced.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the IPCC should concentrate on advising government on climatic change.
The US and EU noted that several of the points in the paper are already addressed in the draft work programme.
The UK, supported by the Netherlands, asked to reassess the suggested approach of IPCC-30 on handling regional issues and proposed that regional aspects could be dealt with in the SYR.
France and Canada questioned the budget implications of new hires, and the US suggested that outreach could be done by the WMO and UNEP.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, noted a COP decision earlier in the day on an SBI agenda item on technology transfer.
Nigeria, supported by Comoros and Burkina Faso, suggested reaching out to the GCF for financial contributions.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND emphasized the importance of recognizing progress made under the AWG-LCA, including the various new institutional arrangements established.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, proposed language urging the COP to take a decision on the issue at this session, and the EU objected.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the key role of governments in ensuring the full implementation of the Convention and stated that proposals should reflect this responsibility.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the need to enhance the frequency and content of national communications, and expressed disappointment with the lack of conclusion on the fourth review of the financial mechanism.
The Netherlands, opposed by the Central African Republic, speaking for the African region, Madagascar, Mali, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, called for adding language reflecting that this would not prevent a possible decrease in Bureau size in the future.
BRAZIL stressed the need for having text forwarded to the COP and COSTA RICA expressed willingness to start negotiations at “another level.”
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, supported holding consultations before AGBM 2.
CANADA and BRAZIL said the draft decision could set a precedent affecting the integrity of the Protocol.
Sudan, for the African Group, proposed a formula for inscribing differentiation in the relevant sections: state the level of obligation or precision for developed and developing countries; provide flexibility for developing countries, such as “all countries willing to do so,” which Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported; and provide further flexibility for African countries, LDCs and SIDS.
Peru and Brazil underscored that this does not prohibit sustainable management of forests.
EGYPT noted its concern with an uneven distribution of work between the two negotiating tracks which “may lead to uneven progress,” and BURUNDI urged the AWG-KP to match its progress with the AWG-LCA.
 PERU has completed its inventory with assistance from the US, but it will be difficult to continue commitments under Article 4.1 without financial and technical assistance from Annex I Parties.
Zambia and Argentina favored a hybrid approach in order to ensure “fallback positions” if and when budgetary constraints require the pursuit of other funding sources.
INDIA, the EU and ICELAND underlined the need to enhance regional capacity.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted that the package must be balanced and include finance and loss and damage.
Canada supported review “at some point.” Switzerland favored a review in 2016 or 2017.
South Africa stressed a long-term goal should be consistent with what is required by science, and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said the goal should be to keep the temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
The G-77/China, the African Group and the LDCs supported restricting access to only those Annex I parties with QELROs.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, with THAILAND, noted a weakness in terms of linkages among elements throughout the text.
 COP-9 President Pers e1nyi opened the second round-table discussion, co-chaired by Paula Dobriansky, Under-Secretary for Global Affairs, US, and Mohammed Valli Moosa, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, South Africa.
Several developing countries supported the G-77/China 92s call for the formation of a contact group at this session, while the US, Australia, Switzerland and Canada preferred forming it at SB-13.
MALAWI and the GAMBIA requested special consideration for vulnerabilities, capacity building, technology transfer and capacity building needs of the LDCs, SIDS and Africa.
On Friday, Sweden, Canada and Norway suggesting covering polar regions in a stand-alone chapter, because the polar regions require an arrangement to ensure that the material is assessed by the right scientists.
The EU, Australia, Japan, Canada, Czech Republic, Brazil, Switzerland, South Africa and Slovakia expressed favor for Alternative A, provided that paragraph  reads that a decision to adopt a protocol would be taken by a 3/4 majority.
Switzerland and Bulgaria supported a text proposed by Canada urging Parties to ensure early payment of contributions.
BANGLADESH, NORWAY and the US expressed concern over overlap with previous relevant COP decisions.
Austria and Norway supported Brazil 92s reservation and cautioned against possible inconsistencies in the methods when used at the project level.
ARGENTINA, supported by KENYA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and POLAND, called for attention to the medical use of HFCs in metered dose inhalers.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said their proposal for a multi-window mechanism to address loss and damage from climate change impacts is coherent with the Protocol’s Adaptation Fund and would fund additional elements, such as addressing loss and damage, and insurance.
On the  , the EU and New Zealand emphasized that even in the absence of a second commitment period, demand for carbon credits will continue, with the EU highlighting its legislation to ensure the continuity of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme beyond 2012.
MAURITANIA and ICELAND cautioned against concentrating solely on forests and conservation.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, insisted that these are separate items.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed the convergence emerging at ADP 2, and invited delegates to work on specific thematic areas, including climate finance, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
Germany, supported by New Zealand, IPCC Vice-Chair and Science Board Chair Ko Barrett, the UK, Norway, the US, Switzerland, Japan, France, Sweden, Belgium, and Spain, said that the IPCC Principles and Procedures are there for a reason and should be followed, opposed inserting language on “objections” in the decision text, and reiterated that the specific objections would be recorded in the report of the meeting.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND also favored the use of unadjusted figures.
CANADA proposed using information from power generating emissions, while the US proposed including emissions from both industry and electricity generation.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, stated that the SBSTA should ask the IPCC to provide global warming rates, emission trajectories up to 2020, and global warming potentials.
On the application of differentiation in the context of time frames, Brazil, supported by India, said this would depend on the context of aggregate or individual review/assessment.
AOSIS suggested the G-77/China be given e2 80 9ca bit more time e2 80 9d to find agreement.
CANADA, the US, EU, NEW ZEALAND, and AUSTRALIA said that cross-cutting elements of mitigation and adaptation should be addressed and that a side event would be helpful in advancing knowledge on these elements.
Swaziland, for the African Group, expressed hope that ministers will be able to take the necessary political decisions.
BURKINA FASO and SENEGAL emphasized consideration of all types of forest for REDD.
The EU, AILAC, the US and others supported a common framework, with flexibility regarding the timing and detail in the reporting, and with support to developing countries.
France responded that the EU believes that the preparatory work on national communications will be financed by the financial mechanism.
ARGENTINA, with AOSIS, stressed the need to consider adaptation as well as mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, NIGERIA and others, said it would not be able to participate in this discussion at this time, as not all its issue convenors were available, and sufficient time was needed to consider the whole issue in context.
Regarding policies to decrease emissions, India and Austria queried whether noting effective reductions in “countries” or “regions” would be more appropriate.
Sri Lanka highlighted integrated town planning and Austria noted the need to disseminate information to the relevant people.
At the end of a preambular paragraph on special needs, EL SALVADOR requested adding “and the Central American isthmus.” In a paragraph on the long-term vision for technology development and transfer , MEXICO asked that “socially and environmentally sound technology” be reinserted.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, suggested working towards agreement on outstanding issues and, where there is no agreement, to consider transferring issues to other Convention bodies.
Germany and Norway suggested that scoping could also take place in the sixth assessment cycle, to further expedite the work.
Exchanging views on the draft decision text, Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed adding a placeholder to outcomes from Adaptation Fund consultations underway “under the APA.” Muyungi said the Co-Chairs did not have a mandate to cross-reference text to a stand-alone agenda item.
Colombia, for AILAC, stressed the need for: retaining options for self-differentiation and c2 a0avoiding c2 a0a bifurcated approach to NDCs; the implementation and compliance committee to be able to work beyond self-referral; and for the GST’s scope and modalities to focus on the Paris Agreement and its long-term goals.
A drafting group, facilitated by New Zealand and Venezuela, refined the focus of the cluster on land use to be “climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management and food security.” With the addition of “and GHG fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems,” delegates supported undertaking this SR.
Costa Rica and the Czech Republic said JI provides a role for the private sector.
Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the quick operationalization of the loan scheme and encouraged the Board to continue its work to improve the efficiency of, and participation in, the CDM.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA said this option was not relevant for the AWG-KP’s mandate to amend Annex B. SWITZERLAND and JAPAN stressed that discussing the options was difficult without clarity on other issues including LULUCF.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA, also stressed the need to have text on market approaches, identifying new market mechanisms as a “core issue.” Chair Zammit Cutajar explained that such text had been left out due to an intended informal ministerial consultation, but that it would be included.
NORWAY, supported by AUSTRALIA and the EU, suggested common accounting rules for all parties, opposed by BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and KENYA.
Gabon, for the African Group, expressed concern that rule 16 was being used to block progress.
 The PHILIPPINES and EL SALVADOR highlighted the need for capacity building and analysis of social impacts for AIJ projects.
The Chair moved to adopt the conclusions as amended, but SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA strongly opposed this proposal and called its adoption “illegal.” BRAZIL’s suggested text that maintained the EU proposal and added that the SBSTA would continue to work on this issue during its fifth session, which was adopted.
SAUDI ARABIA, with QATAR, said it would support the Co-Chairs\' amended text, if FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9  were included.
On the agenda item addressing the implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 , the EU and US emphasized the need to discuss the implementation of decision 5/ CP.7  as a sub-item.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, CHINA and NEW ZEALAND supported noting the report.
Opposed by the LMDCs and the EIG, the AFRICAN GROUP supported a roundtable.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged for a legally-binding protocol under the Convention based on science and applicable to all.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN, CANADA and others stressed that quantifying the concept of “supplementarity” is not necessary.
Nauru, for AOSIS, The Gambia, for LDCs, Barbados, Grenada, Switzerland, the EU, the US, Mexico, Singapore, Australia, Japan and Costa Rica urged the adoption of the agenda as originally proposed.
Burkina Faso, for LDCs, and the AFRICAN GROUP supported categorization of countries.
The SBI bureau is chaired by Mauritania, with the Netherlands as Vice Chair and Peru as Rapporteur.
SWITZERLAND, with CHINA and DENMARK, requested the Co-Chairs provide an opportunity for delegates to comment on the foreword, while AUSTRALIA proposed an informal discussion on the issue.
TRINIDAD and TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, nominated Mr. Tuiloma Neroni Slade .
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by AUSTRALIA, said that it was impossible to accept the inclusion of the word "possible."
NORWAY, CANADA and others said the Convention should play a catalytic role.
In elements for a draft COP/ MOP-1 decision on this matter, the EU, Switzerland and Norway disagreed over a US proposal, supported by Saudi Arabia, New Zealand and Australia, to include text on ensuring that adjustment procedures are conservative so that Parties would not be unduly penalized.
A drafting group of about 30 delegates began negotiations Tuesday night, working from a paper circulated by the G-77 and the EU and US draft decisions from INC-11.
The US and Norway supported early AR7 elections before the end of the AR6 cycle.
After CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and COLOMBIA, objected to joint implementation and tradable emission permits in a paragraph on mechanisms to promote flexibility, the US inserted an additional reference to specify Annex I Parties.
Nauru, for AOSIS, opposed 2 c2 b0C.
The EU, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CANADA and AUSTRIA highlighted an MCP’s potential to prevent disputes.
Finland and Denmark pledged support to the LDC Fund.
On the report of the CGE, Canada, with Australia, noted that there might be overlap between the report and the COP-6 Part II funding package, suggesting they be harmonized.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, explained that a “unified system” should allow for various approaches and continuously improve.
Supporting AUSTRALIA, JAPAN explained that its main trading partners were not the other Annex I Parties but non-Annex I Asian countries.
In their opening statements, Yemen, for the G-77/China, highlighted that: the UNFCCC should remain central to negotiations; Annex I parties must make further commitments for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; and additional meetings for the AWG-KP are needed alongside AWG-LCA meetings, preferably in New York or Geneva, to ensure greater participation.
Australia and New Zealand supported stabilization at 450 ppm.
Ghana, for the African Group, said dimensions of the adaptation goal should be both quantitative and qualitative.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, objected to text referring to information exchange among "all Parties," and to text "inviting Annex I Parties and other interested Parties" to share information during informal round-tables.
During the SBSTA plenary on Friday, 27 May, Canada, the US, New Zealand and Japan supported Australia 92s second proposal.
SLOVAKIA, on behalf of the VISEGRAD Group of central European countries, said rules on JI and CDM should enter the implementing phase simultaneously.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted the need to move to negotiating mode and underlined Switzerland’s proposal on financing.
CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, VENEZUELA, KUWAIT, INDONESIA, and LIBYA, opposed the proposals to establish new groups or mechanisms to assist progress toward COP-6, stressing that the existing FCCC bodies and structures should be employed to this end.
The EU noted this is “the right place to discuss pre-2020 finance.” Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, requested a workshop on finance needs of developing countries, in particular for adaptation, in 2016.
Responding to MALAYSIA, AUSTRALIA said formula approaches are too simplistic to account for wide variations among countries’ circumstances and emphasized that differentiation is not a means to delay action, but to achieve fairness.
Chair Mukahanana-Sangarwe suggested that the AWG-LCA meet at the COP, “as necessary.” Mexico, New Zealand and Norway supported this.
Technology was facilitated by France and Benin.
The EU, JAPAN and the US said the references to "Annex I Party" could be deleted since the articles falling into the scope of that branch only applied to Annex I Parties and since non-Annex I Parties were not submitted to host-country requirements under the CDM.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed hope that the Adaptation Fund would serve as a primary vehicle for adaptation fast-start financing.
The G-77/China reiterated the need to preserve the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities as defined in the FCCC and indicated that the US proposal on “voluntary but binding” commitments for developing countries counter to this principle.
The US, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN and others, asked for more clarity on the working modalities, particularly chairing arrangements.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA and the EU, advocated transparency while recognizing financial realities.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over “extremely slow progress” under the AWG-KP track and emphasized the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
Saudi Arabia and Brazil expressed support for recognizing the needs and situations of LDCs.
 Samoa, on behalf of AOSIS, expressed disappointment that the COP was unable to agree to words as clear and true as the AOSIS protocol.
The EU, US and JAPAN supported this proposal, while SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZULA opposed it.
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Russian Federation opposed.
Brazil, AOSIS and others opposed fundamental changes to the existing architecture, while Australia and Canada suggested that improvements could be made.
ICELAND called for the application and transfer of existing tech adnologies, and SOUTH AFRICA called for demonstrable leader adship by Annex I Parties.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , emphasized that the 2015 agreement must allow for progressive enhancement of contributions.
Regarding the bullet point addressing infrastructure and locked-in future emissions, Saudi Arabia, supported by the Bahamas, proposed alternative language on “future emissions associated with infrastructure.” Germany, France, the Netherlands and Norway opposed, stressing the importance of maintaining reference to “locked-in.” Following informal consultations, the Group agreed to include reference to “existing and planned long-lived infrastructure.” The chapter outline was agreed.
An amendment was proposed by the PHILIPPINES requesting the Co-Chairs of the contact group on non-Annex I communications to prepare a document providing a framework for "elements for draft decisions," based on the G-77/CHINA and the EU proposals contained in the annexes.
China, for BASIC, emphasized that a successful completion of AWG-LCA must address all elements of the Bali Action Plan and must not leave key issues off the table, including equitable access to sustainable development and technology related to IPRs.
The G-77/China underlined gaps in the implementation of the Convention, opposed by some developed countries, including the US and Australia.
Both AWGs will resume their sessions from 2-7 November 2009 in Barcelona, Spain, and are scheduled to report to the fifteenth Conference of the Parties  to be held in Copenhagen, Denmark, from 7-18 December 2009.
On Wednesday, 14 June, delegates held informal consultations on the Chair 92s text on capacity building in developing countries and heard submissions by the G-77/China, the US, EU and Canada.
AOSIS, supported by COLOMBIA, called for inclusion of their proposed figures for Annex I parties  in the conclusions.
CANADA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported a COP/MOP decision improving institutional and procedural aspects of the CDM.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, outlined that COP 23 needs to achieve progress on, inter alia: the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue; work on loss and damage; financial support for the WIM; an outcome on the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement; and clarifying eligibility criteria for the Global Environment Facility  and GCF.
The US, UK, European and Australian Business Councils for Sustainable Energy supported a legally-binding multilateral regime after 2012, urging agreement in Bali on a new negotiating round that would reach agreement on a framework in 2009.
On mitigation , the EU, supported by Colombia, for AILAC, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the US called for clarifying the date for the submission of contributions.
SWITZERLAND, JAPAN and others said the issue of workshops would be addressed during SB-12.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, noted that the proposals provide a range of useful policies and measures, but such proposals alone, without QELROs, cannot significantly advance this process.
Finland stressed the EU 92s efforts to achieve tangible results and show demonstrable progress by 2005.
BOLIVIA and GUATEMALA reported that some parties agreed on a list of concepts for possible inclusion in the preamble.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted outstanding issues, including operationalization of an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol beginning on 1 January 2013, and commitment by Annex I parties to ambitious QELROs.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about the differing levels of progress and lack of clarity on how some agenda items will move forward, and stressed the need to avoid overlapping meetings.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for respecting the mandate of the Paris Agreement and for balanced, comprehensive, and robust guidance that “brings the Agreement to life.”
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, observed that discussions are now becoming more concrete, which he said was necessary to fulfill the Paris Agreement’s mandates.
CHINA proposed noting that “many delegations stressed that any budget proposal must be in line with the Convention provisions and the relevant COP decisions.” The US opposed the “Christmas tree” additions and suggested retaining the existing paragraph.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the Seychelles, for AOSIS, supported Kazakhstan’s proposal.
BRAZIL and SOUTH AFRICA underscored the need for international incentives for developing country action and the recognition of existing actions.
On reporting efforts to address potential consequences, the EU, with CANADA, noted that reporting requirements exist.
The EU, NORWAY and AOSIS raised concerns over environmental integrity and opposed proposals that would exempt projects from the requirement of additionality.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, reiterated concern with the slow progress towards a second commitment period, emphasizing the need to reduce the gap between pledges and what is required by science and historical responsibility.
Switzerland, with AOSIS, supported using the EU proposal as the basis for the COP-6 decision.
The US and the EU emphasized that: developed countries have provided assurance that there will be no gap; a work programme on long-term finance has been established; and developed countries are fully committed to providing fast-start finance.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment over parties’ inability to agree on how to communicate the 2013-2015 review outcome.
Senegal, for the African Group, agreed, noting that, while everyone should participate, rules are required.
Some countries, including Canada and Australia, reiterated their view that the issue is cross-cutting in nature and that it should be integrated into the other topics.
On promoting   for CDM projects, Brazil, India, the Philippines and others supported taking no decision, while Japan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and others supported addressing co-benefits.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , commended the new negotiating text, highlighting that it brings together issues that were close to conclusion at COP 15.
In their opening statements, Argentina, for the Group of 77 and China , warned against “transferring unresolved issues” from the AWG-LCA to the SBSTA, saying the AWG-LCA should maintain an overview of specific issues that were mandated for consideration by the SBSTA.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said both the TEC and the CTC should have the mission to increase the volume of technology transfer for social development.
CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, requested that future progress reports should be prepared, bearing in mind COP-2 Decision 10, which requests the secretariat to report on its activities.
On text outlining a framework relating to capacity building in developing countries, UGANDA, speaking for the LDCs, said the group 92s position had not been reflected in the text.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to reflect recent scientific evidence and, with AUSTRALIA, noted changing national circumstances.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by CHILE, suggested that responsibility for non-permanence be taken by host-country governments, and noted that accounting for timing of emissions from harvested wood products may reduce non-permanence risks and make CDM LULUCF projects more attractive.
The G-77/China and the African Group emphasized the need to reflect binding commitments by developed countries, as well as short- medium- and long-term actions.
Belgium, supported by Tanzania, India, Benin, Algeria, Chad, Congo, Iraq, and WG I Vice-Chair Fatima Driouech, asked to add reference to support for Masters students.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, supported the EU 92s principles on additionality and said additionality should be considered on a project-by-project basis.
On Tuesday morning, SBSTA Chair Helen Plume, New Zealand, welcomed participants and thanked the Government of Mexico, the World Meteorological Organization  and the UNFCCC Secretariat for organizing the meeting.
AOSIS, the LDCs, Malaysia and the EU opposed a e2 80 9cblanket provision e2 80 9d for anchoring thematic institutions and bodies established through decisions.
Bolivia identified a structural link between climate change and markets, and Bangladesh said it is “ironic” that markets are being proposed as a solution to a problem that they have created.
He said Slovenia faces a challenging task in meeting its emissions reduction commitments, but pointed to awareness raised by the European Union  Emission Trading Scheme, which is leading to better greenhouse gas inventories.
GUYANA, supported by COLOMBIA, suggested that a three-phased approach should be integrated into the specific principles.
Austria, the UK, Germany, South Africa, New Zealand and others, opposed by India and Saudi Arabia, called for incorporating quantitative information.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed adding language on “the broad nature of negative impacts” on developing country parties, particularly those countries whose economies are dependent on producing and exporting agricultural products, and on developed countries reaffirming Convention Article 3.5 .
El Salvador, for SICA, emphasized the need to operationalize the GCF in Durban.
On the Adaptation Fund, the LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP and the US stated the draft conclusions do not capture progress.
ECUADOR and VENEZUELA suggested having parties explain their specific proposals.
  During informal consultations, delegates considered a draft text presented by New Zealand and Argentina.
Emphasizing as a “red line,” Sudan, for the African Group, called for both upfront information and the post-2020 arrangement to be under the Convention.
AOSIS, with Bangladesh, said that failure to mitigate emissions has resulted in the need to increase adaptation measures.
Meles Zenawi, Prime Minister of Ethiopia, for the African Group, noted the importance of Africa speaking with one voice, and outlined a short-term finance proposal that includes: US$10 billion per year for 2010-2012; a board of trustees with representatives from an equal number of donor and recipient countries; 40% of funds earmarked for Africa; and a committee of experts to facilitate the launch of the fund.
 SAUDI ARABIA, supporting Poland, stated that simplification should be avoided.
However, AOSIS and the EU could not agree to it, with Tuvalu, speaking for AOSIS, suggesting that  93certain Parties have no room for flexibility.
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and others called for the  Dialogue to continue in negotiations.
Brazil and South Africa underscored the need for international incentives for developing country action and the recognition of existing actions.
Delegates observed a moment of silence for the recent tragedies at the request of INDONESIA, on behalf of the G-77/China.
Germany asked for the full list of low-carbon energy sources, including renewables, nuclear, and fossil fuels with carbon capture and storage , to be removed, which Saudi Arabia, the US, and Japan opposed.
Discussion centered mainly on the inclusion of conservation and enhancement of forest carbon stocks, as proposed by India, Bhutan and others and opposed by Brazil, the EU and others; and on consideration of deforestation in the context of discussions on long-term cooperative action under the UNFCCC.
Norway and the EU praised the Co-Chairs’ informal notes as a long-awaited starting point for discussions.
 AOSIS: Tuiloma Neroni Slade, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Western Samoa to the United Nations, said GHG reductions are technically possible and economically feasible.
Venezuela, for ALBA, called for decisions in Cancun that would result in the adoption of a legally-binding agreement in South Africa respecting the two negotiating tracks.
On a paragraph with three options relating to actions by the Secretariat after the INDCs’ communication, including possible dialogues and an assessment of their aggregate effect, India, China, Brazil, Nicaragua, Cuba, Belarus, Saudi Arabia, Viet Nam and Bolivia favored the first option, requesting the Secretariat to publish the INDCs online, as communicated.
With COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, SLOVENIA, SENEGAL, NIGERIA, and IRAN, NORWAY called CDM a tool for sustainable development in non-Annex I countries that should also contribute to climate change objectives.
CHINA expressed disappointment with the workshop presentation by Japan, noting Japan’s comment that the mandate of the AWG-KP is politically and technically unattainable and assumes no future commitment periods under the Kyoto Protocol.
CHINA, INDIA and BRAZIL said all diffeent ways of referencing e2 80 9call parties e2 80 9d could be reflected in one option using brackets.
On the way forward, Ecuador supported submissions, with the US and EU expressing reservations.
INDIA, supported by EGYPT, said that the Protocol process should take precedence and that the reports from the “friends of the chair” group should go through the COP/MOP or COP before being forwarded to Heads of State.
Australia, supported by the Russian Federation, expressed difficulty with moving to breakout groups, stressing the need to avoid operating in silos.
 CHINA, opposed by the EU and NORWAY, proposed deleting a bullet point indicating, inter alia, that mitigation efforts during the next few decades will to a large extent determine the long-term temperature increase and climate change impacts.
IRELAND , UZBEKISTAN and SWITZERLAND also made submissions .
The US, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA said a possible sanction could be the subtraction of excess emissions from the levels permitted during the subsequent period, with a penalty rate applied.
ARGENTINA, with Brazil, South Africa, Uruguay and Bolivia, stressed the need to address the proposal separately from the options contained in the facilitator’s note.
Chair Kante initially sought to confine discussion to consultations to be led by Mohamed Mahmoud Ould El Ghaouth  but at the insistence of CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, allowed Parties to make general statements in Plenary.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, also speaking for Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and the Republic of the Congo, highlighted the need to undertake the sustainable exploitation of forests and opposed reference to “avoiding conversion of forests.” India called on parties to use the term “sustainable management of forests” to ensure environmental integrity.
MARSHALL ISLANDS, on behalf of AOSIS, stressed the need for hard targets for CO2 reductions.
SAMOA, for AOSIS, opposed by NORWAY, POLAND and CANADA, proposed removing reference to these being "guidelines."
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA stressed the need to retain capacity building as a distinct section.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the UK, said that meeting the depth criteria alone should not be sufficient to establish ocean storage locations.
BURKINA FASO, THAILAND and AZERBAIJAN called for translations of guidelines.
GRENADA noted that appeals could be made on technical grounds and proposed either listing an extensive skillset or only mentioning that members should have “ten years of relevant experience.” AUSTRALIA stressed the link between functions of the appeals body and the skillset required of its members.
The EU and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for effective work programmes for 2009, and underscored the importance of the Article 9 review for Protocol parties.
SAUDI ARABIA, THE GAMBIA, COLOMBIA, IRAN and INDIA opposed any consideration of voluntary commitments at COP-4.
He highlighted the diversity of scholarship recipients, including scholars from Colombia, Sri Lanka, Uganda, Nepal, Morocco, Albania, Kenya, Benin, Ethiopia and Bangladesh.
In the absence of these amendments, Bolivia, opposed by the EU and the Philippines, urged deletion of paragraphs 15-23 .
SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA said that without credit, industries would be cautious about AIJ.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN, the US, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and the EU, noted convergence on information exchange and encouraged accomplishing this through existing mechanisms such as national communications.
MALAYSIA, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and INDIA favored prioritizing regional scenarios on climate change to facilitate developing countries’ work on national communications.
The EU, supported by INDIA, proposed Parties ef bf bd submissions on issues that should be considered.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that budget priorities need to be clarified, and, with BRAZIL, CHINA, the EU, JAPAN, NORWAY, and RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the budget increase is too high.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a technology framework to consider technology needs assessments, research and development and enabling environments.
INDONESIA called for coordination among financial mechanisms, and MALDIVES urged facilitating access.
On the content of the draft decision, AOSIS, supported by the LDCs, BOTSWANA and Colombia, for AILAC, said the decision should call for strengthening the long-term global goal to 1.5 c2 b0C.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU said the decision was in line with the Protocol provisions.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, highlighted that his group is committed to fully respecting the Paris Agreement in a manner consistent with the principle of CBDR-RC.
The G-77/China proposed bracketing reference to sub-paragraphs 1 and b. Venezuela, opposed by the US and Canada, included reference to Protocol Article 2.3 .
Many party groupings supported the Chair’s proposal, while Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, objected to the creation of the contact group on institutional arrangements, stating that the first two contact groups would sufficiently deal with this matter.
SAUDI ARABIA, with BOLIVIA, said their participation in this session did not imply any acceptance of a possible gap and that focus should be retained on the agreement for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The EU, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and IRAN noted the MCP\'s purpose is advisory only and that duplication was dealt with in paragraph 6.
BELARUS, UKRAINE and KAZAKHSTAN supported this proposal, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed it.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, highlighted the importance of technology transfer and called for including language in the body of the guidelines.
On  , New Zealand, supported by the EU, but opposed by the G-77/China, expressed preference for adopting conclusions rather than a decision.
JAPAN also questioned the EU distinction between a facilitative and an enforcement process and said assistance would always be helpful as a first step.
  Lu eds Cifuentes, Catholic University of Chile, presented on the US EPA 92s Integrated Environment Strategies  Programme, which aims to identify integrated strategies and measures that address greenhouse gas abatement and local air pollution.
BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, proposed adding reference to information sharing on the global emissions budget.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, ARGENTINA and others eventually agreed to CHINA’s proposal to request the CDM Executive Board to simply enhance objectivity in the determination of emission baselines.
The EU, Japan, Australia and others once again proposed joining this item with Protocol Article 3.14 under the SBI, while the G-77/China said the item should be considered separately, and proposed a SBSTA contact group.
The EU, with SWITZERLAND and NORWAY, opposed by JAPAN, expressed interest in exploring how the methodologies outlined in the Secretariat’s technical paper  on translating pledges into QELROs would apply to actual pledges on the table.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for balance between action and support, and urged reasonable comparability across issues, “leaving no issue behind.” He noted that finance could “unlock” other issues, and called for upholding common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities  in the outcome.
He highlighted work on MRV by Germany and South Africa.
Canada, supported by Trinidad and Tobago and the UK, expressed openness to any uses of these resources that would help develop scientific capacity, and, with China and WGI Vice-Chair Aldrian, suggested developing partnerships with academic institutions or academies of science to improve the distribution of funds or help with administration.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EGYPT, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BRAZIL, BARBADOS, CHINA and other developing countries, opposed this, noting that support for NAMAs through finance and technology transfer should be discussed in this sub-group on 1 of the BAP.
Meles Zenawi, Prime Minister of Ethiopia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted the importance of Africa speaking with one voice, and outlined a short-term finance proposal that includes: US$10 billion per year for 2010-2012; a board of trustees with representatives from an equal number of donor and recipient countries; 40% of funds earmarked for Africa; and a committee of experts to facilitate the launch of the fund.
The EU, US, Australia and AOSIS expressed disappointment over the lack of agreement and proposed that the draft conclusions include paragraphs on which there was some agreement.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said the package is a good foundation for future work and contains key elements for a climate deal in Durban next year.
NORWAY emphasized universality and, with SWITZERLAND, flexibility to accommodate parties e2 80 99 different capabilities.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the need for adaptation and massively scaled-up and predictable funding.
On information, BRAZIL, said that some information specific to objectives should be quantifiable, while the ARAB GROUP noted there is no such requirement in the Paris Agreement.
WGI Co-Chair Thomas Stocker, supported by China, South Africa and Belgium, noted that the term “rapid” was not clear.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS expressed concern that emissions could continue to rise, despite mitigation measures, and urged Annex I Parties to implement more rigorous policies and measures.
Switzerland, New Zealand, Australia and Canada opposed a e2 80 9cbifurcated approach.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the need for an overarching agreement in Durban that is able to enhance ambition over time.
Uruguay, Senegal and Jamaica called on the international community to provide more financial support to the Fund.
Australia suggested including reference to “any assumptions and methodologies.” New Zealand, supported by Japan, called for additional references to assumptions, methodologies, land use accounting approaches, and the use of market mechanisms.
Vice-Chair Dovland then requested an update from the informal group working to consolidate the options from Australia, the EU, and Brazil under guidelines for national reporting.
In response to a question from the EU, he clarified that the African Group renewable energy proposal is not a separate initiative, but rather intends to accelerate existing initiatives e2 80 99 progress toward their goals.
The EU and INDIA supported extending review time, if necessary, to ensure thoroughness.
Questioning the legitimacy of political pre-conditions, Tuvalu, with Bolivia, requested that parties “unpack the phraseology” and have a foundational discussion on the political pre-conditions.
NORWAY, with the EU, called for commitments from all parties and pricing of emissions.
Uzbekistan, on behalf of the CACAM group, supported by Qatar, emphasized the importance of ensuring equal representation of these countries on the Consultative Group of Experts on Non-Annex I National Communications .
TUVALU, with BRAZIL, said that CDM projects must be additional and not supported by official development assistance.
Venezuela, with China, said the Chair’s text should be compatible with the mandate given to the AWG-LCA in decision 1/CP.15 , which says that future work should be “drawing on the report of the AWG-LCA presented to COP 15, as well as work undertaken by the COP on the basis of that report.” Egypt noted that the work undertaken by the COP on the basis of the AWG-LCA’s report has no formal standing in the process as it was not reported back and discussed by the COP in Copenhagen.
The US said the funds could be used to support developing country needs identified in relation to TGICA and, with the Netherlands, to support participation of developing country experts and authors.
He emphasized the significance of the meeting being held in Africa, given the findings related to climate change impacts and development challenges in the region, and thanked Uganda for hosting the meeting and Norway for its support.
AUSTRALIA and SENEGAL stressed private sector involvement.
TUVALU, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and GEORGIA requested more advance notice for meetings and the topics to be discussed.
The US, CANADA, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, and NORWAY supported this comprehensive approach.
China, India, Egypt, for the Arab Group, and Bolivia underlined that all parties had agreed to the declaration, including a statement on climate change that recognizes the principle of CBDR.
CHINA supported the second option, with BRAZIL suggesting some amendments to it.
The EU and NORWAY called for eligibility requirements to be addressed.
ICELAND and JAPAN proposed multi-year targets and VENEZUELA opposed the introduction of targets and timetables.
On guidance to the Special Climate Change Fund, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN supported using a new text proposed by the EU as the basis for negotiations.
Canada, with Norway, supported maintaining the existing definition of additionality.
With Nicaragua and the Philippines, they called for funding of country-driven actions.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed identifying and clarifying relevant aspects of the guidance the APA is to develop.
The US, supported by Germany and Switzerland, opposed any financial incentives, arguing that this would change the IPCC’s character, although the US supported exploring how more comprehensive support could be provided.
Germany, supported by Japan, Austria and others, stressed that policymakers need information on large-scale impacts even if the confidence level is not high or very high.
The US, supported by AUSTRALIA, called for an action-oriented document.
IRAN and BURKINA FASO called for language on technology transfer and provision of financial resources in the new legal instrument.
Slovenia, with New Zealand, suggested evaluating and improving the Rules of Procedure, inter alia, to ensure regional representation in each WG.
ARGENTINA, the LDCs, the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA and China, for the LMDCs, emphasized differentiation, with many calling for maintaining the existing e2 80 9ctwo-track e2 80 9d approach to MRV.
The LDCs proposed “noting, as appropriate, the requirements of Article 17.” The LMDCs suggested that focusing on Article 17 could “align us with a position we should not take at this stage,” and, with the US, proposed “noting any relevant timing requirements.”
KENYA and UGANDA appealed for a special fund for developing countries other than LDCs.
Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the comparatively small amount of money made available for adaptation.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the different pace should be recognized but not raise concerns.
OPEC countries, China and others continued to suggest that consideration of a protocol or structure was premature before additional analysis and assessment.
On the status of negotiations, several delegates, including SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, QATAR and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said equal progress must be made on all issues, and the Buenos Aires Plan of Action  should be achieved as a complete package.
With Mali and the UK, Germany also highlighted the lack of sustainable resources for the DDC and the need to look for additional funding.
The UK outlined the background and outcomes of the third expert meeting, held in Berlin, Germany, in September 2003.
BANGLADESH stated that many issues that are important for LDCs are missing.
On a paragraph noting that   dominates the increase in energy stored in the climate system, the Netherlands, supported by Norway and Germany, called for including Figure 1.2 from the longer report, which illustrates the heat content of oceans compared to that of the atmosphere, to demonstrate to policymakers how the climate system works.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted progress had been made and more remains to be done.
AUSTRALIA, supported by BRAZIL and the UK, said the appeal procedure should be part of the compliance system and that Article 19 only applied to bilateral disputes.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for robust provisions in the 2015 agreement on developed country support, and periodic review of these commitments.
BRAZIL, CHINA, MALAYSIA, and TUVALU stressed that the Marrakesh Accords catered to small-scale energy projects.
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and others underscored linkages between Articles 3.9 and 9.
NEW ZEALAND noted that accounting rules must be more explicitly addressed in Section D, and, with NORWAY, stressed the importance of avoiding double-counting.
 CANADA and the EU supported the proposed agenda, noting that it is flexible and recognizes the priorities set by delegates.
CAPACITY BUILDING: Delegates considered the co-chair 92s draft proposal on a draft decision on capacity building based on the G-77/CHINA 92s written proposal and integrating submissions from the EU and the Umbrella Group.
BRAZIL and TUVALU underscored the technical challenges of defining soil carbon and measuring fluxes in the proposals.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, called for consolidating the Kyoto Protocol foundation as part of the global climate change architecture.
On purpose , VENEZUELA supported “stabilization” of GHG emissions and, with SAUDI ARABIA and PAKISTAN, opposed the inclusion of “decarbonization” and “carbon neutrality.” KYRGYZSTAN asked to include vulnerability of mountains in the preambular section.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for creating an accessible and simple NDC registry, and Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underlined the need to clarify its objective, function and nature.
Both JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND favored the “net approach”, but until these problems are resolved JAPAN stated a preference for use of gross figures.
Regarding the sub-item on submission of second and third national communications, the G-77/CHINA objected to the reference to the "frequency of" submissions, and, with SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the importance of financial and technical support for preparing national communications before addressing the issue of their timing.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, expressed a willingness to work based on the non-paper, but noted that there were issues missing from it.
Malaysia and China stressed the importance of a concrete implementation work programme.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said the TEC should be a stand-alone body and report to the COP.
The EU, Canada and Norway said the draft decision provided a good basis for negotiations.
After discussions on the effectiveness of voluntary agreements and experiences in Japan and Germany, delegates agreed to indicate that “some recent agreements in a few countries” have led to emissions reductions.
SWITZERLAND and the EU said the usefulness of an intersessional meeting would depend on progress in Bonn and that not all topics required the same time allocation.
Colombia, for AILAC, said discussions on process should remain in plenary.
The US proposed alternative wording on “positive incentives.” Japan, Colombia and others stressed the social aspect of sustainable development but eventually agreed to delete the reference to stakeholders.
CANADA and JAPAN highlighted the importance of continuing analytical work on mitigation potential, with CANADA adding that it has only just started.
TUVALU proposed a new legally-binding instrument and the EU said it should be part of a post-2012 agreement.
She suggested that the deadline for the ADP could be extended, which NORWAY and the US opposed.
Ecuador and Algeria suggested negotiating on the basis of the CRP submitted by the LMDCs.
Stressing the need for consistency between the CDM and JI, JAPAN called for retaining an option to include co-benefits as criteria for JI projects, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION opposed new criteria for JI projects.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that the SBSTA was a standing body and did not have to discuss all topics at SBSTA 1.
He also preferred to see the IPCC as the sole author of the report, while Norway, Canada, Japan, Argentina and Belgium supported co-sponsorship of the SR with the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction .
The US, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, CANADA, the EU, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, and the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed that the group’s mandate is to continue clarifying mitigation pledges by developing country parties, which is vital to build confidence and trust and to identify practical solutions for moving forward.
France, for the EU, highlighted the potential for using a levy on aviation revenue to combat climate change and, with AUSTRALIA, for the use of carbon markets to achieve cost-effective mitigation.
On the  , the G-77/China, with Bangladesh, Pakistan and others, underlined that this mechanism should lead to action on technology and go beyond assessments or information exchange.
The COOK ISLANDS, MARSHALL ISLANDS, NAURU, NIUE, TUVALU, ALGERIA and the CARICOM States expressed concern that the flexibility mechanisms are a way of avoiding domestic responsibility.
 In the question-and-answer session, SOUTH AFRICA questioned Hombu’s reference to global emissions and CHINA stressed that the AWG’s focus should be on Annex I parties.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that such meetings could help parties to understand and resolve political issues.
 SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of VENEZUELA, IRAN, KUWAIT, UAE, SYRIA, QATAR, JORDAN, The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NIGERIA, OMAN, BAHRAIN, SUDAN and YEMEN, reported a lack of transparency throughout the Conference.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, requested that preambular language on “the careful design of policies and measures” be moved to the operational text.
Bangladesh, highlighting common problems such as the high content of carbon in trees outside forests in countries like India, Nepal, Mexico, and his own, called for support for regional and international collaboration on methodological practices.
Belgium, Spain and Indonesia called for including wind speeds in the bullet on atmospheric circulation to highlight the importance of this data for the wind energy industry.
Timor Leste, for LDCs, welcomed the technical paper on assessing the risk of loss and damage  and report on the expert meeting held in Tokyo, Japan, from 26-28 March 2012  as a good basis for substantive discussions.
In the afternoon, on the roundtables, the EIG, supported by the African Group, the LDCs, the EU and Norway, proposed one day for mitigation, two days for transparency and, with Argentina, also for Brazil and Uruguay, one day for adaptation communications.
Belgium, on behalf of the European Union, said the review of commitments should not be debated at COP-7 or the WSSD, but only after the Protocol has entered into force, possibly at COP-8.
The US supported negotiating reporting guidelines under the AWG-LCA and, with Australia, reiterated the need to reach agreement on an operational MRV system in Cancún.
BELARUS, the EU and UKRAINE favored simplifying amendment procedures.
On  , the Russian Federation and Ukraine supported the option requiring no decision to be made with respect to the issue.
QATAR, EGYPT and ALGERIA opposed new commitments and urged Parties to operationalize UNFCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 .
The US, the EU, Australia, Canada and New Zealand objected to this proposal because there are many categories of special needs countries, besides AOSIS , and opening the Bureau to one will require opening it to the others.
CANADA, supported by SWITZERLAND and BULGARIA, urged Parties to ensure early payment of contributions.
On a call from Bangladesh to downscale models, Austria warned against taking a narrow approach, noting that shortcomings exist in various areas, such as lack of data or capacity, and not just in the lack of available models.
Several parties, including the EU and the G-77/China, were initially open to the proposal.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, noted progress in certain areas, highlighting that new LULUCF information “has the potential to move things forward.” He identified a “fundamental disagreement” between the G-77/CHINA and Annex I countries concerning the focus of the work, questioning how to enable movement in the AWG-LCA when progress is not being made under the AWG-KP.
The US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA stated that this agenda item is limited to mitigation.
With the G-77/CHINA and opposed by the EU, JAPAN, and AUSTRALIA, he supported inserting this agenda item.
Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, urged operationalizing the Agreement at COP 24.
CHINA expressed disappointment with the GEF paper, and GHANA said he will not consider the paper because it does not conform to the terms of reference given by the COP in decision 4/CP.13.
SINGAPORE, PAKISTAN and INDONESIA supported voluntary mitigation actions by developing countries and, with NORWAY, ICELAND, JAPAN and SWITZERLAND, supported REDD.
MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA, requested deletion of the entire section on flexibility.
Japan, supported by New Zealand, suggested having clear outputs from each phase, such as a report from the technical dialogue.
In addition, informal consultations were held on LDCs, the CDM, JI, the Consultative Group of Experts  on non-Annex I communications, late payments of contributions to the UNFCCC, and a letter from the Central Asia, Caucasus and Moldova Group on their status under the UNFCCC.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, identified further areas, including additionality of finance and clarifying developing countries’ needs.
  In the morning’s contact group, Facilitator La Viña proposed three drafting groups on safeguards, focusing on: stakeholder participation, led by Paraguay and Australia; environmental safeguards, led by Indonesia and Canada; and governance, led by the EU and Guyana.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested discussing the rules of procedure and the interval of meetings of the governing body.
While these negotiations are crucial for the period beyond the year 2000, one cannot overlook the fact that most Annex I Parties, with the exception of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, are not on the road to meeting existing commitments.
Saudi Arabia, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Brazil, suggested adding a sub-heading on objectives.
Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, informed that the group had been, and still was, working on consolidating options proposed by its members in the Geneva text.
BURKINA FASO and ALGERIA stressed that procedures to deal with the GEF can be very cumbersome and that efforts made by non-Annex I Parties must be recognized.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with the lack of time in which to reach an outcome.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, expressed continued concern with implications of LULUCF proposals for accounting and transparency and stressed the need to consider quantitative impacts of the proposals.
The G-77/China, the EU, AOSIS, the African Group, the LDCs, the Environment Integrity Group, the Umbrella Group and SBI Chair Robert Owen-Jones then thanked UNFCCC Executive Secretary de Boer for his leadership.
Liechtenstein, for the EIG, said a political declaration would be an appropriate outcome of the Talanoa Dialogue.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, suggested that the APA Co-Chairs: encourage the Adaptation Committee and LEG to complete their work and present a joint report to COP 23; and invite COP 23 to refer the mandate on modalities for recognizing adaptation efforts to the SBI for outcomes to be considered by the CMA in 2018.
SOUTH AFRICA, with CHINA and INDIA, VENEZUELA and SINGAPORE, stressed that this sub-paragraph of the BAP addresses “various approaches,” not just markets.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the need for an open and transparent process and called for progress on substantive, not just procedural, points.
Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to focus on national action in Annex I parties and the G-77/CHINA said quantified targets should not be replaced.
VENEZUELA, for LMDC, supported by MAURITIUS, emphasized that developed countries’ emission reductions should be based on domestic actions and called for delivery of means of implementation.
SOUTH AFRICA acknowledged Japan’s new target and invited other Annex I countries to come up with emission reductions consistent with the scale required by science, while encouraging them not to condition their pledges on action by others.
Venezuela, supported by Argentina, China, Peru, Chile and others, stressed the need to increase the number of seats allocated to Region III.
SAMOA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA and LUXEMBOURG called for strong and enforceable rules and procedures that penalize non-compliance.
The Climate Action Network urged the G-77/China to reject the 93roadblocks 94 erected by Saudi Arabia.
Sudan, for the African Group, proposed text on a framework for scaling up technology development and transfer, explaining it would provide a strategy to guide the Technology Mechanism.
 EL SALVADOR, on behalf of the Latin American and Caribbean Group, called it “deplorable” that COP-2 had not been able to elect officers “in a proper manner,” and requested the Secretariat to continue to strengthen the “consultation machinery.”
Germany, supported by Belgium, Luxembourg, and Poland, said the IPCC does not need to wait for a request from the UNFCCC.
 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, drew attention to mangroves and coral reefs as a first line of defense for coastal zones, “brain drain” from SIDS and, with MICRONESIA, insurance issues.
The US and MEXICO emphasized that the table did not intend to give a full picture of parties’ views but rather to facilitate their understanding of certain proposals.
  On this issue , Sebastian Oberthür, Chair of the Compliance Committee’s Enforcement Branch, reported on the Committee’s activities in 2008, including the resolution of two questions of implementation concerning Canada and Greece.
Several members, including Germany, called for learning from lessons of the AR5 process, with Tanzania and Mali citing experiences where some issues, such as food security and drought, relevant to the African region were not adequately addressed.
Nepal, for the LDCs, urged a focus on, inter alia: “concrete outcomes” on the NWP; finalizing the institutional arrangements between the CTCN and TEC; and ensuring a role for science in the Review.
CANADA and JAPAN raised concerns about introducing new criteria concerning compliance action plans.
On the frequency of the compliance body 92s meetings, AOSIS and SOUTH AFRICA said it would depend on the amount of work it had before it and that meetings should be held together with other meetings under the FCCC.
He noted examples of satellite imagery used by Brazil, India, Europe, Vanuatu, and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization , highlighting that: forest cover monitoring can be done with a variety of methods, while cautioning that monitoring of degraded forest is challenging and local expert information is needed.
SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA, and Iran, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES , supported the proposal.
EGYPT welcomed the agenda proposal by the Philippines as “balanced and inclusive,” and underscored equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the financial crisis should not delay action and welcomed efforts to improve distribution of CDM projects.
A number of developing countries, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the US, said the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities should apply.
The Least Developed Countries  Expert Group  held its fourth meeting in Thimpu, Bhutan, on 8 and 12-13 September.
With the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and SWITERLAND, he opposed establishment of new institutions.
The Philippines said that it was clear that several G-77 members were expressing their views as sovereign Parties to the Convention and that their statements did not reflect the complete or common position of the G-77 and China.
 On a bullet point concerning regional costs, India, supported by Austria and Finland, questioned language on rules for allocating emissions, with Austria preferring reference to emission allowances.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported a full carbon accounting system that would not require the listing of activities, while COLOMBIA expressed concern with an activity-based approach and proposed a symmetrical approach.
On the inclusion of principles within the text, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and JAPAN, urged their retention, noting that a number of the proposed principles are not set out in UNFCCC Article 3 .
Hungary and Belgium stated their preference for the fund to be used for scholarships that link directly to the IPCC and to commemorate the memory of the first IPCC Chair, Bert Bolin.
VENEZUELA, BANGLADESH, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, IRAN, SYRIA, KUWAIT, LEBANON, NIGERIA, THE GAMBIA, ECUADOR, ALGERIA, MOROCCO and INDONESIA supported SAUDI ARABIA.
The G-77/China, with Bangladesh, the African Group and Saint Lucia, described national adaptation plans  as key in supporting adaptation.
On Article 3.3 and 3.4, Australia and Canada suggested addressing both as a package.
Regarding consideration of specific technologies, the G-77/China wanted a listing of specific technologies to be considered by the EGTT, while the US, EU, Japan and others said that SBSTA should not 93pick winners.
MALAYSIA and ROMANIA supported the topic, rather than question format of the Synthesis Report.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said there is room for improving the environmental integrity of JI and looked forward to discussing, at SBI 42, how to ensure that JI delivers a net atmospheric benefit.
NORWAY, with SWITZERLAND, suggested examining whether exemption from the share of proceeds could be further enhanced.
The NETHERLANDS and FRANCE said reliance on inventories alone was insufficient to evaluate the effectiveness of P&amp;Ms.
Norway, Denmark, the UK, Germany, Canada and many others agreed to the authors e2 80 99 proposal, but Saudi Arabia disagreed.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed deep concern over unresolved issues related to Agreement Article 6, stressed the need to deliver on the objective of a global transformation towards low-emissions and resilient development, and called for strengthening guidelines and stepping up ambition.
The US, SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND, CHILE and BRAZIL opposed a role for the COP/ MOP.
New Zealand, the US, Brazil expressed concern about including the stabilization scenarios.
The G-77/ China, Kuwait and Venezuela reiterated the importance of technological development relating to fossil fuels for diversification of economies in oil exporting developing countries.
The G-77/CHINA and the EU said targets should be based on sound science.
Mexico, the Philippines, Sudan, for the African Group, Nigeria, South Africa, Malawi, Solomon Islands, Bangladesh, the Dominican Republic, the Republic of Korea and Fiji supported the third option, in which the COP would agree that parties’ INDCs will include a mitigation contribution, and may also include contributions on adaptation and MOI, and that the INDCs of each party will represent a progression beyond the current undertaking of that party.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, emphasized commitment to the principle of CBDRRC, and procedural transparency and inclusiveness.
Switzerland, for EIG, said that all parties should adopt nationally-determined commitments and targets, featuring highest possible contributions from all, coupled with internationally determined MRV rules.
Brazil, speaking for the G-77/China, stressed that the draft TOR and work agenda from the workshop served as a basis for negotiation only, and China called for further exchange of views.
Botswana and Sri Lanka welcomed LAKI’s progress and future workshops.
Brazil, for BRAZIL, ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, supported developing textual elements and suggested distinguishing which elements need to be agreed in 2018 from those that can be addressed later.
Australia, Canada, the EU, New Zealand and Singapore preferred specifying arrangements for individuals serving on constituted bodies and other entities established under the UNFCCC and not only under the Kyoto Protocol.
On loss and damage, the G-77/CHINA, with AOSIS and the LDCs, urged loss and damage be in the agreement.
CHINA, NIGERIA and SAUDI ARABIA sought alternative language supporting substantial progress by COP-6.
PERU and BRAZIL said the credibility of Annex I Parties and the principle of equity are in danger.
Supported wholly or in part by many parties, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for adding to the new agreement: operationalization of the long-term goal; parameters for mitigation commitments; metrics for commitments; a system to progressively increase ambition; accounting rules; and clarity on market mechanisms.
Delegates also agreed to add a footnote including reference to the dense phase of carbon dioxide at depths below 800 meters, as proposed by the UK with the support of AUSTRIA and the US, and that the footnote should refer to the recovery of methane, as suggested by FRANCE.
In 2009, the AWGs met in April, June and August in Bonn, Germany; October in Bangkok, Thailand; November in Barcelona, Spain; and December in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Several countries suggested a short, focused summary for policymakers , with Belgium and Luxembourg suggesting that the currently-labeled SPM could be turned into a Technical Summary.
The Netherlands and Norway said that the restructured GEF is now in conformity with the conditions in Article 21.3 and should permanently operate the financial mechanism.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the continuation of the forum on response measures and for further discussions of enhanced action on response measures.
The US and the EU expressed concern over the proposal.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for reflecting their proposals more clearly in the text, indicating that the multilateral climate fund would provide resources for both mitigation and adaptation, and stressing the need for direct access to funds by developing countries.
e2 80 9d Citing the need for balance, Saudi Arabia objected to including only data for a &gt;66% probability and, opposed by Norway, the UK, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, Chile, Japan, Austria and others, called for also including equivalent information for &gt;50% and &gt;33% probabilities.
Morocco, speaking for the G-77/China, called on the Russian Federation to ratify the Protocol and on the US to "come back on board," and expressed concern about the low level of Parties 92 contributions to the Secretariat.
On quantified economy-wide targets by developed country parties, speakers from the EU, Switzerland, the US and Australia reported on progress toward their targets.
The EU, supported by Japan, preferred referring to efforts that parties are able to “undertake,” instead of “make unilaterally.” Noting potential use of quantitative or qualitative methodologies, Brazil supported “developing countries may also clarify the extent to which enhanced efforts are dependent upon the provision of support.”
 The EU, with BRAZIL, suggested dealing with the problem outside the CDM.
Early on Friday morning, text was introduced on new studies on Africa being one of the most vulnerable continents, with Sudan opposing it and China proposing new language.
CHINA said the Asian Group had selected Thailand and Saudi Arabia to provide its representatives, so he could not accept the invitation.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, noted that one of the cardinal principles of the Convention is "common but differentiated responsibilities."
Honduras, for SICA, expressed deep concern over delays concerning the second commitment period under the Protocol, stressing the need for urgent progress.
AFGHANISTAN and TAJIKISTAN proposed special consideration for mountainous countries.
The EU and Switzerland emphasized the importance of historical data sets.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged developed countries to fulfill existing commitments.
Brazil and Belgium underlined the intergovernmental nature of the Panel.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to ensure that the GCF continues to serve all developing countries in the Convention.
Many parties called for developed countries to lead in emission reductions, and BRAZIL and CHINA said that existing mitigation actions in developing countries must be recognized.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that consideration of spillover effects should focus on non-Annex I parties.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expected progress on agriculture and the transparency framework.
The Philippines noted that the G-77 and China have not yet come up with a definite decision on this matter or on the assessment of funding needs.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , underscored the need for methodological work on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries .
On regional divisions, Mexico highlighted existing regional organizations as a source of information and pointed to a vast literature on economic regionalization, while Mali stressed the importance of focusing on socioeconomic differences to ensure policy relevance.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for multilateral oversight of commitments, questioning the suitability of a bottom-up approach to deliver the required level of ambition.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, noted that the ADP work programme must be based on clear agreement and understanding on guidelines in accordance with all the articles and principles of the Convention.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, AOSIS, KUWAIT and LIBYA, said that progress to date was insufficient and urged Parties to begin by examining the recommendations of the recent risk assessment and insurance workshops.
The US, EU, Canada and Australia said that the new financial framework should be built on existing institutions, while many developing countries highlighted the need for new financial architecture.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, reiterated the need to take all submissions into consideration.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS noted the importance of addressing financial, technical, and institutional constraints.
 China, supported by Korea and Brazil, objected to Germany"s proposed new categorization of some developing countries.
Following informal negotiations with Mexico, South Africa, for the African Group, introduced new text that the AWG-LCA would meet in conjunction with the COP “for as long as necessary.”
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the ADP should intensify global cooperation on climate change to meet the below 2ºC goal.
 Pakistan, for the G-77/China, emphasized that the Convention and Protocol should remain the central multilateral platform for addressing action on climate change and cautioned against erosion or replacement with a less equitable post-2012 arrangement.
Chair Stoycheva agreed to suspend the adoption of the agenda, in order to allow the G-77/China to consider the US proposal.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the existing frequency of national communications submission should be maintained, but with the possible introduction of a mid-term update on mitigation and GHG inventories.
 Pakistan, for the G-77/China, believed that a constructive foundation had been laid in Bonn for Bali.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a five-year commitment period; Annex I parties moving to the top end of their pledges and beyond, and dropping their conditionalities; provisional application of the Protocol amendments to be adopted in Doha; and limiting participation in the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments under the second commitment period.
Japan and Australia suggested deleting the underlined portions.
Malawi called for differentiated treatment for the LDCs, SIDS and Africa in accordance with the BAP.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of a mechanism to ensure implementation of Article 4.8 and 4.9, and expedited activities under Article 4.9 .
On Monday, 12 June, the SBI considered the experience with the review of second national communications from Parties included in FCCC Annex I. Switzerland, supported by the Russian Federation, underlined the importance of training review experts and supported holding of a workshop to exchange information about the preparation of third national communications.
Venezuela emphasized that a subsequent revision of the text must contain clearly delimited options from all parties, especially from the G-77/China.
The US supported one decision for both and, with JAPAN, opposed compensation for adverse effects.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by UGANDA, said the data reported by Parties rather than the database should be referred to as the "authoritative source."
Saudi Arabia and AOSIS opposed nuclear projects under CDM.
The US, CANADA and AUSTRALIA expressed concern about the lack of rigour of research on attribution.
The US, CANADA, JAPAN and EU said the EGTT 92s draft work programme is ambitious, but manageable.
Venezuela, on behalf of the G-77/China, said that the recent focus on the Protocol has meant some UNFCCC issues have been neglected, particularly those relevant to developing countries.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, underlined that the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol is an essential and basic element for the future of the climate change regime and that definition of new QELROs for Annex I parties is a “cornerstone” of a Cancun outcome.
WGII agreed to Ghana and Colombia 92s proposal to delete reference to El Ni f1o, and to add a paragraph on water availability.
JORDAN, INDIA, CHINA and VENEZUELA opposed reference to the catalyzing role of sub-national authorities in enhancing the impact of implementation of policies on reducing emissions and vulnerability, and building resilience.
Swaziland, for the African Group, highlighted the importance of technology transfer, capacity building and financial support to developing countries.
WGIII Co-Chair Metz and WGII Co-Chair Parry drew attention to various outreach activities of their respective Working Groups, such as booklets prepared with UNEP in various UN languages, and meetings on outreach in Japan, Hungary, Morocco and China in collaboration with the Global Industrial and Social Progress Research Institute  .
  Calling for elaboration of an equity reference framework, the Gambia, for LDCs, supported the use of metric and non-metric criteria, such as historical responsibility, future sustainable needs, and vulnerabilities.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for, inter alia: a compilation of non-Annex I parties’ national communications; enhanced capacity building support; and continuation of the Consultative Group of Experts on non-Annex I national communications  with an expanded mandate.
Germany, Saint Lucia, Grenada, the Marshall Islands, France, Angola, and others objected to this deletion absent guarantees that the text would be included elsewhere in the SPM.
The G-77/CHINA, the EU, AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP, the LDCs, the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, the UMBRELLA GROUP and SBI Chair Robert Owen-Jones then thanked UNFCCC Executive Secretary de Boer for his leadership.
NIGERIA, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that developed countries were not engaging in meaningful FCCC implementation.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, requested a detailed compilation and synthesis regarding all national communications to date.
Nicaragua, for ALBA, called on developed countries to prioritize ratification of the Doha Amendment, and fulfill their obligations with the aim of limiting temperature rise to below 1.5 c2 b0C to protect Mother Earth.
Austria, supported by Ireland, preferred retention of “committed” as a precise scientific term.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, emphasized the importance of strengthening market mechanisms to complement public funding, and supported creation of new mechanisms that expand the global signal on carbon price.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the party-driven nature of the process, said only party proposals should be considered, and requested chairs’ summaries of the contact group discussions.
On REDD+, the AFRICAN GROUP, AUSTRALIA and others welcomed progress on this issue.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed that the Protocol has established the institutional and governance structures that “are and must remain at the heart of the climate regime.” He called for extending the share of proceeds and broadening the scope of eligible LULUCF activities under the CDM.
The UK suggested accepting the sentence that had been proposed by the US, but Chair Pachauri stressed that it had been opposed by the Authors.
Mali, for the African Group, requested new paragraphs: to address the lack of parties’ ownership of the TEMs’ preparation; requesting developed countries to present a roadmap to mobilize US$100 billion per year by 2020; urging developed countries to include, in their financial INDCs the time frame and periods of disbursement of post-2020 finance; and publishing developed countries’ communications to ensure transparency.
Bolivia, opposed by Australia, proposed adding reference to information sharing on the global emissions budget.
 The PHILIPPINES said it was not the G-77/China that blocked establishment of the TAPs.
South Africa, supported by the EU, Norway, Bolivia, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Gambia, opposed by Japan and the Russian Federation, proposed taking these tables into consideration when updating document FCCC/KP/AWG/2010/INF.1.
New Zealand suggested a workshop on sectoral approaches to report to both AWGs, and Japan noted that sectoral approaches were useful in bridging the AWGs.
Supported by Chile, for AILAC, and Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the G-77/CHINA called for discussing linkages to support.
CHINA said the shared vision should emphasize the principles of the Convention, and GHANA, the LDCs, VENEZUELA, PAKISTAN and ALGERIA highlighted the ultimate objective of the Convention and sound science.
Brazil underscored that rules cannot be used to avoid or mask true environmental integrity and, with Ecuador, for ALBA, and Bolivia, their position that the second commitment period to the Kyoto Protocol is the key issue.
However, the US, European Union  and others envisaged a more hands-off approach, suggesting that the adaptation committee provide technical or scientific advice on good practice, but not necessarily provide detailed project assessments or be involved in project approval.
 Morocco, supported by Libya and Sudan, called for regional meetings to explore the applications and use of the working group reports as quickly as possible, particularly in Africa.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported by Jamaica, proposed referring to the decision as the “Lima Work Programme on Gender.” Jamaica stated that the proposed actions should be guided by gender equality, not merely gender balance.
The Russian Federation, Ukraine, Turkmenistan and Belarus welcomed Kazakhstan 92s intention to take on voluntary commitments and ratify the Protocol.
THE BAHAMAS, with SINGAPORE, highlighted that per capita criteria disadvantage small countries.
On the mode of work, Maldives, for AOSIS, asked for clarification on the intended outputs of the next two ADP meetings, saying this would help parties stay on track.
On CCS, CANADA supported EU proposals to address policy issues, including boundaries and remediation, followed by technical issues.
Vanuatu, speaking for the LDCs, noted that this group had only established itself recently.
Following comments from the US, Germany, France, and the UK, text was modified to reflect that the guidance highlights key components and steps to be used when atmospheric measurements and inverse models are used as inputs to, or for comparison with, the inventory emissions estimates.
The group cleared the final remaining bracketed text after accepting an EU proposal, amended by the US and the G-77/China, to note that an invitation to Parties to provide the Secretariat with guidance on the scope of a proposed workshop "may include data, information and a decision-making framework."
Angola, for the LDCs, noted the Agreement is applicable to all and encourages movement toward a common global temperature goal of 1.5 c2 b0C through, inter alia, periodic reviews, global stocktake, and the recognition of specific needs.
The G-77/China favored a legally-binding mechanism, while Canada preferred allowing the Secretariat to enter into bilateral arrangements with parties and/or the enactment of relevant domestic legislation.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, called on parties to fulfill the mandate of the BAP and to reject attempts to shift responsibility onto developing countries.
On coordination during the adaptation planning and design process, good practices included examples of developing spatial planning strategies that include multi-sectoral activities and specific tools to enhance capacity to deal with extreme weather events at the community level in the UK, and developing integrated adaptive strategies involving stakeholders from different sectors in Ghana.
The EU and Environmental Integrity Group supported the agenda without amendments, while the Africa Group and AOSIS supported adding an item on capacity building.
The G-77/ CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SAMOA and BRAZIL proposed retaining the request, and urged specific reference to the Protocol.
The EU, Colombia for AILAC, the US, and others supported a common framework, with flexibility regarding the timing and detail in the reporting, and with support to developing countries.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stressed the distinction between developed and developing countries’ reporting requirements and highlighted the close link between MRV of actions and MRV of support.
Brazil opposed the expression e2 80 9cwill require e2 80 9d as too prescriptive, preferring a suggestion by Switzerland, Japan and others to refer to e2 80 9cis associated with e2 80 9d or e2 80 9care characterized by.
Brazil, supported by Saudi Arabia, expressed concern about the AR5 appearing as an incomplete report.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged closure of the pre-2020 mitigation gap in order to determine whether adaptation measures should address a temperature increase of less than 1.5˚C from pre-industrial levels, or increases of 3˚C or more.
Protocol ratification: Numerous Parties supported the Protocol 92s entry into force by Rio+10, 2002, including, inter alia: BULGARIA, CARICOM, the EU, FRANCE, GERMANY, HAITI, IRELAND, ITALY, JAPAN, SPAIN, SWEDEN, and the UK.
Malaysia and India emphasized MOI in the context of equity and historical responsibility.
Germany, France, India, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Luxembourg and others, noting lack of time for proper discussion at IPCC-46, proposed establishing a task force to address the issue.
The US and EU underscored the importance of the third GEF replenishment in supporting developing country work in this regard.
Following a question by the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, SAMOA clarified that the rule that would be applied, namely the eligibility rule, would already be in place so it would not actually be a case of retroactive application of law.
On the scale of finance, Egypt, with Paraguay, emphasized that adequate and predictable finance should come mainly from public sources.
  This Country-Led Initiative in support of the UNFF, to be held from 8-12 September 2008 in Paramaribo, Suriname, is organized by the governments of Suriname, the Netherlands and the United States.
COP 19/CMP 9 President Marcin Korolec highlighted several significant outcomes of COP 19 and lauded early engagement by Peru and France allowing e2 80 9cthe trio to make the road to Paris a smooth highway.
SAUDI ARABIA urged progress on implementation of Article 2.3, while the EU said issues related to this article have already been addressed in earlier decisions.
BELIZE, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for technology transfer relevant to adaptation.
Bolivia and Singapore supported including reference to the concept of equity throughout the report.
The EU said in order to maintain symmetry with the outcome of the AWG-LCA, the length of the second commitment period should be from 2013-2020, instead of 2013-2017, with Brazil expressing interest in this proposal.
In response to CHINA e2 80 99s query on the drivers of a projected increase in Spain e2 80 99s non-EU ETS emissions by 2020, he explained that a new strategy, titled e2 80 98Roadmap 2020, e2 80 99 is expected to place Spain e2 80 9con track e2 80 9d towards its non-EU ETS emission reduction target of 10% compared to 2005 levels.
CHINA, supported by BANGLADESH, EGYPT and SAUDI ARABIA, and opposed by AUSTRIA, called for removing a reference to developing countries as possessing the places where most of the increase in the number of sources is expected to occur.
  The Secretariat introduced twelve proposed Protocol amendments , which had been received from: Australia; Belarus; Bolivia for several countries; Colombia; Japan; the EU; New Zealand; Papua New Guinea; the Philippines; China for several non-Annex I countries; and two from Tuvalu.
The 33rd session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  was held from 10-13 May 2011 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
On flow, AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, the US and Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested placing paragraphs on contributions under the legal agreement before those on the scale of resources.
On compliance, BRAZIL, with AOSIS, noted the need for IAR to build on existing review processes and for review options that are compatible with the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol and with Protocol Article 8 .
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted elements of a balanced outcome in Durban, including progress on: mitigation efforts by both developing and developed major economies; the establishment of the Green Climate Fund; the shaping of the CTCN; REDD+; enhanced guidelines for national communications, biennial reports and biennial update reports; and operationalization of IAR and ICA.
The Republic of Korea and AOSIS underlined the importance of decoupling economic development from fossil fuel dependence.
The US suggested addressing deliverables and, with the EU, highlighted the GCF e2 80 99s initial capitalization of US$9.7 billion prior to Lima.
Mexico, the EU and the Dominican Republic welcomed the initiative.
On Facilitator Khan’s proposal to hold an informal question and answer session with the IMO and ICAO, the EU, MICRONESIA, TUVALU and NORWAY supported it, while VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA and OMAN opposed.
BRAZIL, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS and other developing countries, emphasized that IAR and ICA respond to different objectives.
Uganda, with Malawi, noted the need for improved access to funding for the LDCs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the imperative for accelerating progress under the AWG-KP and the need for focusing on efficient institutions and robust carbon markets.
CHINA and INDIA opposed an increase of the threshold.
The US noted that he did not view the text as policy prescriptive and, supported by Switzerland, said the chapter lays out empirical aspects of issues broadly related to finance and investment, and aims to assess relevant literature in a manner consistent with IPCC procedure.
Saying the EU had played a constructive role in the informal discussions on political pre-conditions, Tuvalu, supported by the LDCs, urged other parties to clarify their political pre-conditions for agreeing on a second commitment period, particularly on the issues of “comparable efforts.” Bolivia said moving from the Kyoto Protocol to a pledge-and-review system by developed countries without any binding international agreement is not acceptable.
Nigeria proposed providing short-term training to young meteorologists while the Bahamas suggested providing support at the postdoctoral level.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed appreciation of Spain’s announcement on financial support.
Grenada, for AOSIS, and MAURITIUS emphasized the need for capacity building for LDCs.
CANADA, AOSIS and others proposed changes, and discussions continued late into the night.
The delay was reportedly caused by differences between the AOSIS and Saudi Arabia over questions such as a reference to the lowest stabilization scenario of 450 parts per million  analyzed by the IPCC.
The G-77/China opposed and the EU and other developed countries supported low-carbon emission strategies.
URUGUAY proposed adding “forest management, reforestation and any other forestry activity.” MEXICO suggested “forest management and forest conservation” and COSTA RICA proposed “natural forest regeneration,” and cautioned against allowing sink activities to disappear during the review discussed in Paragraph 3.
Norway, supported by Australia and the EU, but opposed by Brazil, China, India and Kenya, suggested common accounting rules for all parties.
The EU and Colombia, for AILAC, said the suggestion was useful but should be analyzed later.
Several Parties, including the EU and SOUTH AFRICA, said it would not be possible to achieve a final resolution on this issue at COP/MOP 1, and the EU presented an assessment of all the options.
UGANDA and Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored the utility of a review period to examine the level of domestic action.
On the role of the COP/MOP, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and CHINA, opposed by SOUTH AFRICA, proposed that it have a triggering role as well as the competence to decide on the findings of the compliance body.
SAMOA and BOLIVIA said full costs of adaptation actions should be funded, with BOLIVIA noting unavoidable impacts and lost development opportunities and CHINA opposing additionality assessment.
On promoting co-benefits for CDM projects, BRAZIL, INDIA, the PHILIPPINES and others supported taking no decision, while JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and others supported addressing co-benefits.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for considering the IPCC special report on 1.5 c2 b0C before COP 24; and for countries to take into account Dialogue outcomes when communicating their NDCs in 2020.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, urged that the consolidated text form the basis for negotiations.
The UK and KENYA discussed the five year timeframe for revision of observer organizations.
Speaking for AOSIS on matters relating to the mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol, Jamaica stressed the need to generate greater confidence in the CDM, including identifying how net mitigation can be built into the mechanism.
Norway, opposed by Saudi Arabia, requested that the UNFCCC Secretariat provide information at IPCC-48 on UNFCCC decisions addressing how IPCC products will be used for the GST.
Brazil and Norway cautioned against changing e2 80 9ccarefully crafted text, e2 80 9d and the sentence was approved as presented.
On  , the G-77/China, with AOSIS, the LDCs, the African Group, and others, supported establishment of a permanent adaptation body under the Convention to, inter alia: assess adaptation needs of developing countries; formulate guidance; develop technical criteria; and facilitate implementation.
MAURITIUS, supported by MOROCCO and ZIMBABWE, welcomed AIJ contributions to capacity building in developing countries, if they adhere to national objectives, and asked the Secretariat to facilitate the initiation of AIJ projects to African countries.
ZIMBABWE, for the G-77/CHINA, called for two draft decisions, one relating to FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9, and the other to Protocol Article 3.14.
On the agenda, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed that the conclusions from AWG-KP 11 should include: a clear statement of the AWG-KP’s objective, which is to adopt amendments to the Kyoto Protocol at COP/MOP 6; a work programme containing clear milestones and dates; and modalities for conducting the AWG-KP’s work.
MEXICO, the LDCs, the EU and TANZANIA called for referencing gender-sensitive approaches, with some parties also emphasizing human rights and ecosystem-based approaches.
SAUDI ARABIA and AOSIS opposed nuclear projects under CDM.
Germany, supported by Chile, Canada, and the UK, requested language that explains that keeping within the remaining carbon budget requires net negative CO2 emissions.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, identified similarities between the proposals.
INDIA, with the G-77/CHINA, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and SUDAN requested the option for new institutional arrangements be moved to Part 1 of the Tool on the agreement.
In the closing SBSTA plenary on Friday, 27 May, the compromise text was supported by the EU, US, Canada, Australia, Russian Federation, Argentina, Bulgaria, New Zealand, Ukraine, Japan, Norway, AOSIS and the Environmental Integrity Group .
Pakistan said elements should stem from the party-driven process rather than “exclusive consultations.” Venezuela, with South Africa, emphasized that balance cannot be achieved without an outcome under the AWG-KP.
 Several countries, including the EU, CHILE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the
Parties started discussing a draft decision on the periodicity of non-Annex I national communications, including a suggestion for a three-year cycle proposed by the EU, a four-year cycle from draft text discussed during SBI-19, and a six-year cycle proposed by the G-77/China.
JAPAN, CANADA, NORWAY and others identified the FSV as being instructive of capacity gaps and challenges.
JAPAN, supported by KAZAKHSTAN, BOTSWANA, the US, CANADA, BENIN, ICELAND, HONDURAS and SOUTH AFRICA, suggested that COP-5 President Szyszko  be empowered to appoint a special facilitator to assist negotiations and help Parties realize the BAPA by COP-6.
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM highlighted the Heart of Borneo forest conservation initiative, and VIET NAM said the CDM should include incentives for reducing deforestation.
QATAR, KUWAIT, the SUDAN, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, LIBYA, ALGERIA, NIGERIA, SYRIA, OMAN and JORDAN suggested alternative language whereby the JWG would report to COP-6 93with a view 94 to adopting a decision on a compliance system, as this would be more consistent with the BAPA.
NEW ZEALAND, TOGO and the EU called for prioritizing the most vulnerable countries, and the GAMBIA and BHUTAN emphasized LDCs.
Algeria, for the African Group, opposed suggestions to provide loan financing, as opposed to grants, to developing countries.
Switzerland, with Canada, New Zealand and others stressed the need for flexibility in organizing the IPCC Bureau and, opposed by China, wished to exclude reference to Annex C, which lists the composition of the IPCC Bureau and any Task Force Bureau, in the definition of the IPCC Bureau.
The AFRICAN GROUP and PARAGUAY urged steps to bring about a better regional distribution of projects.
The G-77/CHINA made a point of order and requested the chair to make a ruling according to China’s proposal.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said Annex I countries must reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2020 and, acknowledging Japan’s new pledge, urged other Annex I parties to step up their pledges.
The EU, Japan, Australia and other developed countries preferred a single eight-year commitment period with flexibility on reference years.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, stated that market and non-market approaches should be guided by principles of transparency, environmental integrity, and avoiding double counting, while considering the diversity of NDCs.
The EU, and some of its member States such as SPAIN and ITALY, strongly endorsed the SAR as the basis for a protocol and urged decisive action.
Observing a “Latin American style of respectful multilateral diplomacy,” Venezuela, for the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America , lauded COP 20 and noted, besides Peru as its host, Bolivia’s presidency of the G-77/China, and Venezuela’s hosting the Social Pre-COP.
Australia, Japan and Canada highlighted a lack of information on certain gases.
On future organization of work under the ADP, the Philippines, for LMDC, supported by Malaysia, for G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that the roundtables were moving from the intent of assisting parties to share conceptual views on existing elements to introducing new elements.
Barbados, for AOSIS, identified 350 ppm as the safe concentration level, which has already been exceeded.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted a proposal on the commitment period reserve, BRAZIL proposed language on the final review report of the ERTs, and JAPAN said it had a new proposal on a new procedure for the final compilation report.
A contact group, co-facilitated by Ghana and Canada, was established to discuss options to address SLCFs, their financial implications, and means of funding, as well as timing and deadlines.
Uganda, the Gambia, Nepal, Burkina Faso, the US and others stressed clear articulation of the needs and concerns of least developed countries  in the text and decisions.
He explained that this was in order to avoid “paralysis.” BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and SAUDI ARABIA said they could only support a consensus approach.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, inquired about the status of the draft operational strategy, as contained in FCCC/SBI/1995/3/Add.1, emphasizing that it focused on mitigation, which was not a responsibility for non-Annex I Parties.
INDIA called for discussion of financing and, with CHINA, suggested clarifying which activities qualify as REDD-plus.
The first option, supported by Canada, the Russian Federation and initially some G-77/China countries, referred only to the relevant paragraph numbers in the report of the first part of AWG 4 .
The UK, supported by Denmark and the US, said the language would be more suitable in the decision on national communications.
China and Brazil urged accelerated funding for second national communications, and Algeria expressed concern about lack of progress and funding.
Uganda, for the LDCs, suggested the co-chairs provide an abstract of the key elements desired in the technology section.
During discussion, the US, with Canada, urged applying the policy only to academic researchers, adding that if other types of requests are received, revision of the policy could be considered at that time.
A contact group, co-chaired by France and the Marshall Islands, addressed the carbon budget on Thursday evening and Friday morning.
SBI also notes that regional workshops are essential to advance the implementation of Article 6 activities, and invites Parties and others in a position to do so, to contribute to financing the remaining workshops, which address the needs of Asia, Latin America and the members of AOSIS.
 In discussing the list, NORWAY, CANADA and JAPAN stressed the importance of placing Annex I mitigation efforts in the global context.
 The Chair said that no draft decision on technology transfer was yet available and asked the Philippines, on behalf of the G-77, and France, on behalf of EU, to produce a document in time for Tuesday\'s session of the COW.
The EU and others, opposed by JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported updating the technical papers to reflect progress.
 In the morning informal group on various approaches, including opportunities for using markets, to enhance the cost- effectiveness of, and to promote, mitigation actions, proposals were presented by: Jamaica, for AOSIS; Bolivia; Ecuador; the EU; and Switzerland.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for consultations to be concluded during the current session in Bonn.
On strategic review of implementation, AILAC supported a five-year cycle and, with Switzerland, Turkey and the Republic of Korea, and opposed by China, said it should be applicable to all parties.
The US identified convergence on, inter alia, the need for work on baselines and share of proceeds, and the EU highlighted monitoring, verification, certification and validation.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, the EU and AOSIS, supported discussions on the TAR as a separate agenda item.
Ethiopia, supported by Mali, noted that the language already reflects compromise and preferred retaining the text as it stands.
Two notifications, from Iceland and Monaco, had been received and were included in a miscellaneous document.
SWITZERLAND, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, underlined the importance of training review experts, and proposed a workshop to exchange information on the preparation of third national communications.
On the inclusion of activities in decision 7/CP.7 , particularly on economic diversification, the EU, with Norway, opposed by the G-77/ China, called for the deletion of the reference.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by CHINA and CHILE, and opposed by the US, preferred restating the extent to which developing countries e2 80 99 implementation depends on the level of support.
Switzerland called for specific time frames, while Japan, supported by the US, noted budget and other limitations and stressed the need to focus on a five-year programme of work.
Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed political and generational responsibility to reach an agreement in Copenhagen.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented slow progress on means of implementation , and called for progressing from informal notes to textual narratives.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EL SALVADOR, underscored technology transfer, capacity building, and analysis of social impacts in AIJ projects and called for transparency in reporting.
The UK, supported by the Russian Federation, suggested looking at models in other international organizations, and the need to differentiate between the various levels of IPCC members.
On Establishment, Canada, with the Russian Federation and Chile, said the facilitative branch would not adopt "decisions."
Agreeing to focus the 2017 workshop on long-term climate finance, parties commented on the workshop’s scope, with the Philippines, for the Group of 77 and China , calling for it to: be informed by the High-Level Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance; increase clarity on how to scale up climate finance; and, with the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , consider how to advance adaptation finance.
THAILAND and CHINA objected, noting that Article 4.5 specifically refers to Annex II Parties and not other institutions.
TUVALU and COSTA RICA stressed that their countries’ proposals are not intended to replace the Kyoto Protocol.
Saint Lucia, Norway, Germany, the UK, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Spain, the US, New Zealand, Japan, France, Solomon Islands, Hungary, Chile, the EU and others opposed Saudi Arabia’s suggestions, and urged keeping the language simple and leaving the content to the scoping process.
Chile, for AILAC, announced proposals to streamline the text on, inter alia, long term and global aspects of adaptation, and commitments.
On ministerial engagement, the EU, Chile, AILAC and AOSIS supported ministerial engagement under workstream 2.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, on behalf of AOSIS, expressed concern about the number of Annex I countries failing to meet the relatively soft targets for emissions reductions and supported Japan\'s proposal to include a performance review on policies and measures.
FRANCE announced the cancellation of Honduras’ and Nicaragua’s debt.
  On Thursday, India, with Norway, called for reference to fishing and subsistence farming.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, stressed the needs to clearly define climate finance as funds aimed entirely at addressing climate change and as being new and additional to official development assistance.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, INDIA, the EU and NEW ZEALAND supported the IPCC request.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for an ambitious and balanced new text focusing on emission reduction targets.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment at lack of progress on issues such as the Adaptation Fund.
Japan and the US asked questions about paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 concerning the voluntary nature of contributions.
SPAIN reported on an informal meeting jointly organized with Mexico and South Africa to discuss the legal form of the AWG-LCA outcome.
SWITZERLAND, supported by SAMOA, CANADA and JAPAN, and opposed by BRAZIL and KUWAIT, requested further discussion on the consolidated text.
India and others stressed that verification is inconsistent with the Convention’s provisions, and China said MRV only applies to supported action, which would be verified by national entities under UNFCCC guidance.
BOLIVIA, with VENEZUELA, opposed this, calling the proposal an “underhanded” way to include new market mechanisms on the agenda, under the guise of a research item.
BOLIVIA, CUBA and VENEZUELA supported referring to the integrity of Mother Earth and the right to development.
  Participants discussed whether it would be clearer to state that warming of the climate system is “unequivocal” or “evident.” Participants agreed to state that warming is “unequivocal.” Canada, with Germany and Switzerland, suggested adding a reference to the accelerating trend of warming.
Participants discussed key issues in the two documents that could be included in the decision, such as the G-77/China’s suggestion of a non-Annex I expert group and the EU’s proposal for technical assessments.
The US, supported by Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands and Germany, opposed this approach, and said that countries, not individuals, should be selected for each group and then each group would elect its Chairs, as it is a government-driven process.
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRIA and HUNGARY, and opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said the IPCC should defer consideration of further work on aerosols until the AR4 is completed.
The EU called for progress on: national adaptation plans, in particular with relation to LDCs; host of the CTC; capacity-building; NAMA registry; and modalities for the ICA.
On financial resources, Chile commented that “money can always be found.” Noting the SR topics had prompted offers of financing, South Africa cautioned that those funds might not be forthcoming if the Panel opted to integrate those topics into AR6, rather than produce SRs.
The US, supported by CANADA and SWITZERLAND and opposed by CHINA, said the revision of guidelines was fundamental to improving second national communications.
SWAZILAND, supported by the GAMBIA, noted the draft text “provides a landing ground and marks the beginning of defining capacity building.”
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS and supported by CHILE, proposed a coordination mechanism that would create a subsidiary body to provide advice to the Parties and offer a forum for the negotiation of specific economic, administrative and other instruments.
AUSTRALIA, the US and the EU highlighted the potential role of the CDM in technology transfer.
Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China , expressed concern about calls by Annex I parties to end the Kyoto Protocol in favor of a single agreement in Copenhagen.
Tuvalu, supported by the US and Sudan, opposed a statement indicating that such reductions are permanent, and WGIII removed that language.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by India, for the LMDCs, and opposed by the US, proposed moving all the paragraphs on technology transfer under part 3 of the Tool to the agreement.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, highlighted the AWG-KP’s “very clear and definite” mandate to reach conclusions on Annex I parties’ emission reductions.
Supported by the US, China, and Belgium, Saudi Arabia called for a general statement in the SPM summarizing the state of knowledge on 1.5 c2 b0C and highlighting existing knowledge gaps.
On the relationship between Articles 13 and 14, JAPAN, VENEZUELA, MOROCCO and SLOVENIA noted that Articles 13 and 14 are clearly different.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported discussion on integrating existing market mechanisms and creating new ones.
The G-77/CHINA suggested consideration of implications of different time horizons for GWPs and suggested replacing references to GWP with “GWP/GTP.” The EU said changes to the project-based mechanisms may need to be considered if GWPs are changed.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by the US, the EU, the NETHERLANDS, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and ARGENTINA, suggested that the workshop be held in conjunction with the subsidiary body and AGBM meetings in February, and recommended a report from the meeting.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported a registry for nationally appropriate mitigation actions , without prejudicing how it would be institutionalized, and a robust MRV process.
On the relationship to the AIJ pilot phase, the US, supported by the EU, said that AIJ activities might be eligible for JI if they fulfill the rules and requirements set for such projects.
On Expedited Procedure for Cases Related to the Kyoto Mechanisms, SOUTH AFRICA supported such a procedure and, with CHINA, proposed the establishment of an eligibility panel.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, highlighted that the text would benefit from further technical work and that some core issues in the AWG-KP will require consultations at the political level.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, and Nicaragua, opposed adoption of the agenda without the item on national adaptation plans for LDCs, as provided for in Decision 1/CP.16.
The EU stressed integration with the ordinary review process, while NEW ZEALAND underscored the review for reinstatement as a specific element of the review guidelines.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized close links between the three subsidiary bodies.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by SLOVENIA and RUSSIA, was not supportive of the reference in the text to nuclear power as a mitigation option.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT expressed concern about the COP’s failure to adopt rules of procedure and said that a compromise must be reached soon.
The Philippines, on behalf of G-77 and China, said that the SBSTA should not be subordinated to the SBI as if they were parallel bodies, and added that the SBSTA should work out guidelines for the IPCC report.
With regard to the Bureau, COSTA RICA, on behalf of the Latin American and Caribbean Group , said it will put forward Argentina , Antigua and Barbuda, and Costa Rica .
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that in-depth reviews should be received as soon as possible.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted that the AWG-LCA is close to fulfilling the Bali Action Plan mandate after the decisions taken in Cancun and Durban.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that some Annex I parties have not submitted information on their QELROs for the second commitment period, highlighting the need to avoid a gap between commitment periods in order to preserve the Protocol and its flexibility mechanisms.
Belize, for SICA, urged efforts to enhance the global observation programmes, and called for engagement on CCS, standardized baselines, common metrics and forests in exhaustion.
The Gambia, Ghana, the US, Palau and Malawi welcomed the earmarking of 50% of GCF finance for adaptation, and supported continued balance in the agreement.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , underlined that a technical mode of discussions is a fundamental underpinning to the text-based discussions in 2018.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, endorsed the preparation of guidelines for consideration by SBSTA.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, urged parties to address outstanding issues under the AWG-LCA, taking into account equity, common but differentiated responsibilities and historical responsibility.
The US, China, Saudi Arabia, Iran and others asked for more clarity on the working modalities, particularly chairing arrangements.
CHINA and VENEZUELA expressed concern that returning to the elements text from Lima would be a step backward.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, thanked COP President Witoelar for providing another chance to reach agreement on the issue in informal discussions under the COP.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed guarded optimism on progress, noting the need to maintain pace under both AWGs.
On corals, China and Saudi Arabia, opposed by Germany, questioned the scientific basis of the statement on coral bleaching and mortality.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, emphasized commitment to adopting amendments to the Protocol in Doha with a view to operationalize the second commitment period.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the Durban Platform as a universal platform to take international efforts on climate change forward by providing a “common ground” for all countries.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed satisfaction at the growing recognition of the need for clarity on rules relating to markets and LULUCF.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with the formulation of the drafting group facilitators’ notes on sub-paragraphs 1 and 1 of the BAP.
Cuba, for Argentina, Brazil, China, India and Saudi Arabia, supported by South Africa and others, stressed the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
The EU, opposed by CANADA, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, emphasized the establishment of a consultative process to ensure continuity of information exchange.
The US, with AUSTRALIA and Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for an interim conference venue while awaiting the completion of the permanent conference facilities.
BRAZIL, PERU, CHILE, COLOMBIA, NEW ZEALAND, COSTA RICA, BOLIVIA, AUSTRALIA, the US, JAPAN, URUGUAY, CANADA, NORWAY and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP argued in favor of its inclusion, citing a variety of motivations and preconditions.
On bunker fuels, VENEZUELA, opposed by NORWAY and CANADA, proposed introducing their language on bunker fuels as an alternative to the clusters in the text.
Bolivia suggested referring to supply and demand patterns instead of fossil fuel prices, while France favored reference to energy prices.
Japan, the EU, China, the US, Australia and others stressed the need to avoid duplication of work with the AWG-LCA.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for parallelism in the cycles for mitigation and MOI, noting that if LDCs are to contribute to mitigation, support for their efforts must be provided in parallel.
As of 9 May 1998, the following 39 Parties had signed the Kyoto Protocol : Maldives, Samoa, Antigua and Barbuda, Switzerland, Saint Lucia, Argentina, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Seychelles, the Philippines, Malta, Costa Rica, Japan, Austria, Germany, Finland, Portugal, France, Sweden, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the UK, Brazil, Norway, Monaco, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, China, Panama, El Salvador and Mexico.
On institutional arrangements, the LDCs proposed establishing: a clearinghouse to help those lacking capacity access the best adaptation technologies; a roster of international adaptation experts; and, with TIMOR LESTE, regional adaptation centers.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for: a separate section on loss and damage; balanced treatment of mitigation and adaptation; and enshrining existing institutions.
On a global goal on adaptation, Mexico, presenting a Mexico-AILAC proposal, supported by Jordan, suggested a global goal that includes an aspirational vision.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, the US, IRAN and BANGLADESH, objected to restricting the Round Table to ministers, saying all heads of delegations should be welcome regardless of rank.
On electing the members of the WIM ExCom, Maldives, for AOSIS, and the US recalled statements made in COP plenary, with AOSIS noting that the footnote referring to the election of officers to the WIM does not fully reflect their views on the CMA’s governance of the WIM.
The EU stressed that none of the CACAM countries are included in Annex I, and said they therefore belong in the group of non-Annex I Parties.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for equal consideration of all SBSTA agenda items and to finish work on REDD+.
Croatia, supported by the Central Group of Eleven , stressed its special circumstances.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress with negotiations on the scale of Annex I parties’ emission reductions and stressed that the adoption of new Annex I emission reduction targets is a legal obligation.
In response to a query from Tanzania to provide examples of adaptation to climate change, Nishat noted that in Bangladesh local communities have recognized something unusual happening with the weather, but that the government needs to be convinced to take action.
JAPAN, supported by AUSTRALIA, requested specific calculations on funding dedicated to the working capital reserve.
Norway also proposed adding reference to impacts on the Millennium Development Goals in the topic on responses, and Sweden and Norway stressed that the SYR should communicate the co-benefits and tradeoffs between air pollution and climate change.
Uganda, for the LDCs, proposed convening a short plenary to review progress on Wednesday.
CANADA, supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, proposed establishing a joint SBSTA/SBI contact group to allow for full deliberation of the Review.
Tuvalu said conclusions on text that had yet to be discussed by the group would be premature, and New Zealand suggested bracketing the draft decision text for COP-6 and COP/ MOP-1.
Many countries, including Malawi, for the LDCs, New Zealand and the US, supported recognizing the specific circumstances of small island developing states  and LDCs, including through direct access and readiness support.
Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of Lesotho, for the LDCs, noted progress by LDCs in developing their national adaptation programmes of action , and called for scaling up accessible, predictable and sustainable finance for LDCs that is additional to official development assistance.
Ecuador, for ALBA, expressed concern with the lack of fulfillment of the legal mandate to achieve ambitious emission reductions.
ARGENTINA, with EGYPT, expressed concern over the inclusion of land sector emissions, noting that agriculture is not the main contributor to climate change.
Tuvalu, with the Arab Group, noted that there would be consequences in the negotiations if parties continue to hold the outcome of the AWG-KP as contingent on the AWG-LCA.
The EIG and NORWAY further suggested that a work programme be launched under the SBSTA to facilitate understanding of the submitted NAMAs.
India, supported by Brazil and Peru, called for an additional category for sustainable lifestyle choices, emphasizing their overriding importance.
New Zealand, supported by Italy and Belgium, recommended that Working Group Report Review Editors could be considered for the Synthesis Report writing team.
France also proposed that the International Energy Agency contribute to the report and, with Saudi Arabia, that information be included on greenhouse gas emissions during production and use of renewable energy technologies.
Drawing on the example of including aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme , INDIA urged countries to refrain from engaging in unilateral measures.
The US, supported by Tuvalu and the EU, suggested identifying elements unique to REDD-plus, with the US highlighting the importance of participatory processes and environmental and social safeguards.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, with VENEZUELA, EGYPT, SAUDI ARABIA and MALAYSIA, stressed that the Group’s proposal, which includes the establishment of a strategic planning committee, technical panels and a multilateral climate technology fund, should be retained in the text.
GUYANA and COLOMBIA stressed the need to create opportunities for countries with low deforestation rates to participate.
Deletion was opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT, VENEZUELA and OMAN.
 AUSTRALIA supported by the New Zealand, stated that delegates should restrict themselves to procedural, rather than substantive matters, and warned against moving into the work of the October session.
India asked for a cross-chapter paper on the Himalayas and Saudi Arabia called for the paper on deserts to include consideration of sandstorms and dust.
Ecuador supported references to “integrity, legitimacy and reputation,” which others opposed, with the US noting these terms did not have agreed upon definitions.
The Maldives, for LDCs, expressed concern that technology transfer is being left to market mechanisms and that LDCs lack experts.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, Switzerland, Norway and others, said that referring to the whole decision covers the interests of all Parties.
The EU and Japan requested the deletion of a sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize adverse effects of response measures.
COLOMBIA urged “thinking outside the box” and, with the EU, suggested exploring the issues in more informal settings, such as sub-groups.
Participants agreed to Austria’s proposal to list the rate of sea level rise in millimeters per year instead of meters per century, and to Germany’s suggestion to list Greenland and Antarctic ice sheet contributions separately within the table.
The EU, supported by the US and SWITZERLAND, stressed that the focus of workstream 2 should remain on mitigation.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, and Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, called for support for the full implementation of national adaptation programmes of action .
 , the US, supported by Saudi Arabia, called for the text to reflect both the benefits and risks of mitigation and adaptation in a balanced manner.
On the role of the Consultative Group of Experts , KENYA and VANUATU drew attention to the financial shortfall facing the CGE.
SWITZERLAND and NORWAY said ministerial engagement should not be a matter of routine, but add value to the process.
Australia and Norway called for a focus on core issues.
Saint Kitts, for AOSIS, and JAPAN supported forwarding the bracketed text to Durban as it is, recalling the significant effort already invested.
Nauru, for AOSIS, identified the need to address surplus Kyoto units, highlighting the proposals by AOSIS and others to move this issue forward.
Peru, for Colombia, Chile, Guatemala and Panama, reaffirmed a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol as a decisive outcome in Durban and a key milestone for achieving a multilateral comprehensive legally-binding rules-based regime.
Saudi Arabia, India, and Antigua and Barbuda suggested deleting the text or revising the language, noting that this is the current practice and there is no need to reflect it in SBI conclusions.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for better geographic distribution of CDM projects and more support for non-Annex I communications.
On support for the NAP process through contributions to the LDCF and the Special Climate Change Fund, CHINA, supported by INDIA and MALAYSIA, proposed deleting language inviting “parties that may make voluntary financial contributions” to provide such support.
Noting the submission from Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and United Arab Emirates , the COP then adopted the decision on an economic diversification initiative .
China preferred extending the timeline to 18 months, while Slovenia favored keeping the timeline under 18 months.
 Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for in-depth consideration of indicative ranges of emissions reductions, including the contribution of  Annex I parties.
GHANA and THAILAND recommended amending text on support from international and other organizations.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the EU has already expressed preference for a protocol.
 Jean-Pascal van Ypersele, Chair of the Task Force established to consider future activities of the IPCC by IPCC Chair Pachauri at IPCC-28, consisting of China, Morocco, the Netherlands, Uganda, the US, Belgium, Pachauri, and the IPCC Secretariat, explained that the Task Force had met twice during this session, and produced an interim report .
South Africa, Australia and Canada supported the Co-Chairs issuing a revised draft decision taking account of views expressed at this meeting.
Delegates debated at length a proposal by Azerbaijan and Pakistan to delete Turkey from Annex I and Annex II.
The US suggested that Parties distinguish between exporting and importing in their reporting, while TUVALU, for AOSIS, cautioned against approaches not accounting for products harvested in developing countries and transferred to developed countries.
The Federated States of Micronesia agreed that the AWG-KP should move forward independently of the AWG-LCA, and proposed using either the public announcements by the US or other numbers, such as a 25% or 45% reduction, as an assumption for defining the Annex I aggregate range.
IRAN said the AGBM should cooperate with the World Trade Organization , the International Energy Agency , OPEC, UNIDO and others to assess which P&amp;M are effective and efficient.
INDIA and BRAZIL called for capturing the full scope of “support.” The US suggested spelling out the capacity-building aspect.
The UK and Luxembourg suggested a longer timeline for responses to the questionnaire.
Uganda, for LDCs, presented on NAPA experiences, reflecting on good practices and gaps, noting the value of capacity building in enhancing knowledge and skills in the NAPA process.
AOSIS noted the need for region-specific and special mechanisms for LDCs and SIDS.
Germany said the EU would build a coalition of like-minded countries willing to commit themselves to timetables and targets for increasing renewable energy use.
Responding to a question by AUSTRALIA on mitigation actions planned to enable Belarus to meet its 2020 emissions reduction target, he outlined, inter alia, renewable energy and energy conservation laws.
Burkina Faso, for the African Group, identified the need for capacity building at the regional and national levels.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over the lack of substantive conclusions adopted during the session and urged working towards the adoption of substantive conclusions at SBI 42.
JAPAN supported the original Option C, but not with the US amendments, which tremendously increased ambiguities and uncertainties.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for referencing the outcomes of the 2013-2015 Review and the specific vulnerabilities of small island developing States .
CANADA, JAPAN AUSTRALIA and AOSIS also supported the roster of experts.
Under identification and classification of problems by ERTs, the US, opposed by the EU, proposed moving the section on classification, stressing that ERT 92s should identify rather than classify problems.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and other developed countries preferred a single eight-year commitment period with flexibility on reference years.
China, Sudan, for the G-77/China, India, Bolivia, Saudi Arabia and Grenada, for AOSIS, supported the African Group’s statement and highlighted that the solution refers not only to time devoted to numbers, but also to the need for progress on concrete, specific and ambitious numbers.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, GUYANA and COSTA RICA objected to changing the name of the agenda item.
BULGARIA, for CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, and supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CHINA and KAZAKHSTAN, for the GROUP OF NINE 96 an alliance of Central Asian and Trans-Caucasian countries, and Moldova 96 underlined that economies in transition are, like developing countries, in need of financial aid from the GEF for the purpose of capacity building, technology transfer and responding to adverse effects, and requested the removal of the brackets around text on their needs.
  Tuvalu, for AOSIS, called for a special track for SIDS to address urgent needs, and said the programme should not include matters relating to mitigation.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the GCF is a crucial element of the solution.
Gabon, for the African Group, highlighted that adaptation and finance issues are cornerstones for a successful outcome and, on the way forward, quoted Henry Ford: “Coming together is a beginning; keeping together is progress; working together is success.”
On "[initial] assigned amounts," the US and Japan stressed that the terminology was dependent on the outcome of the mechanisms group, while Brazil, supported by the G-77/China, said the terminology related to Protocol Article 3.1 .
INDONESIA and BRAZIL said ICA should not be burdensome.
Switzerland, supported by Norway, the EU and Belize, for AOSIS, proposed structuring discussions around clusters, as in the technical paper.
  Bolivia, for the G-77/China, Ecuador, for the LMDCs, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and Sudan, for the African Group, expressed dissatisfaction with the new iteration of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft text on INDCs, lamenting that it fails to reflect the views of all parties.
Following suggestions from France, Ireland, Norway, and the US, the authors proposed moving text on the rate of global warming into a new sentence and specifying that the rate is a result of past as well as ongoing emissions.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for an Agreement Article 6.2  oversight body to allow for up-front reporting.
AUSTRIA, NEW ZEALAND, the US and CANADA supported keeping the figure because it contains relevant information.
Highlighting the bifurcated structure of the current MRV framework under the Convention as a starting point, China, with Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, and the Philippines, stressed that differentiation should be embedded systematically in the structure of the framework, not as a varying aspect of each element.
The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICAN GROUP, LDCs, AOSIS and the US said that cross-cutting issues under the three thematic areas of the work programme need to be addressed in a holistic manner.
The EU and the US suggested the end of the review.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol is essential for addressing climate change.
CHILE, MEXICO, MALI and AOSIS welcomed workstream 2 as a tool to engage with non-state actors.
Mexico, with Costa Rica, suggested a draft decision urging Germany to strengthen cooperation with the Secretariat, for consideration at COP-6.
New Zealand advocated text signaling that the work of the ADP will result in “a package of different components.” Japan stressed the need to clarify that mitigation is the ultimate goal of the Convention.
China, supported by India and Saudi Arabia, said identifying modalities for communicating information on the provision of public financial resources to developing countries in accordance with Paris Agreement Article 9.5  is a “homeless issue” that is lacking progress, calling for allocating time and two co-facilitators for this issue.
Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Sudan questioned the circumstances of the replacement, recalling that the Rules of Procedure outline the situation of replacement only when a current Bureau member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the terms of office or perform the necessary functions.
The US highlighted the possibility of a hybrid of the Bangladesh model with an in-country institution coordinating project development and applications for assistance from the CTC.
Stressing the need for transparency and inclusiveness, he proposed, supported by BOLIVIA and NICARAGUA, that REDD+ discussions should be held in a contact group, rather than in a spinoff group or informal consultations, to ensure the involvement of indigenous peoples and other stakeholders, and that facilitators should be selected from Annex I and non-Annex I countries that have no material or financial interest in REDD+ outcomes.
The G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed text on the need to minimize the adverse effects of Annex I Parties.
Uganda said policies and political will were required, and, supported by Argentina, urged promoting South-South cooperation in transferring adaptation technologies.
 On a sentence on the additional investments required in the energy sector to return global emissions to 2005 levels by 2030, Sweden and China asked for clarification for why a date of 2005 was chosen.
JAPAN stressed the “enormous effort” to provide text in the annexes to everyone a month before the meeting, and that the annexes “were adopted two days ago.” BOLIVIA underscored the importance of environmental integrity, and indicated that the bracketed paragraph is “only meant to make more money with the CDM and for the investors without helping the climate.” Co-Chair Shimada indicated that all annexes remain in brackets.
The EU suggested reinstating language on LDCs and SIDS and addressing emissions from international bunker fuels.
He said that the first lead author meeting will be held in Panama City, Panama, from 9-12 November 2009, and the second meeting is tentatively scheduled for March 2010 in Vietnam.
Tanzania, for the G-77/China, highlighted the need for capacity building for a range of issues, including NAMAs, MRV and REDD+.
The G-77/China underlined historical responsibility, with Bolivia stressing also climate debt and relationship of climate change with human rights.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, supported preparing a paper, and VENEZUELA noted it should include historical cumulative emissions.
Switzerland, Belgium, Sudan, Libya and Bangladesh emphasized that the IPCC cannot wait for the election for an unlimited time.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, described the Paris Agreement as a resounding triumph of multilateralism and welcomed increased ambition, in the form of the 1.5 c2 b0C goal, and the separate treatment of loss and damage in the agreement.
Germany, Sweden and Switzerland remarked on the gap between funding needs and budgeted activities, recommending solutions including non-travel meeting options, leaving IPCC derivative materials out of the budget, and conducting a budget efficiency review.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ZIMBABWE, suggested developing a programme of action building on the workshops held in March.
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that operationalizing the GCF cannot be delayed in spite of its shortcomings, which include lack of a dedicated small island developing states  and LDC funding window, and the lack of provision for a replenishment process.
The Bahamas, for AOSIS, noted that the current financial crisis demonstrates that existing institutions do not work.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, and Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, opposed.
Regarding project eligibility under the CDM, the EU, supported by Hungary, and opposed by Japan, Australia, the US, Canada and Saudi Arabia, underlined its preference for a positive list.
The US, supported by Austria, suggested that the IPCC Bureau should not have any formal decision-making authority in approving observer organizations.
SWITZERLAND and JAPAN highlighted existing national reviews on compliance.
The US, with the Russian Federation, addressed the issue of late payment of dues, seeking information on existing practices in other UN forums.
Mali, for the African Group, urged continued balanced treatment of issues under the APA and highlighted the pre-2020 ambition and support gap, including the few Doha Amendment ratifications.
JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND called for taking into consideration the political guidance given in Copenhagen.
On high-level engagement, Japan, with the EU, Norway and Bangladesh, supported timely delivery of TEM outcomes to policy makers.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for protecting environmental integrity and human rights, and support for developing countries to implement their NDCs.
Expressing concern about lack of progress, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, lamented that parties are attempting to renegotiate the Paris Agreement.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, affirmed progress was made under the resumed session, and indicated that most remaining issues are of a political nature.
In the ensuing discussion, Sudan enquired about the stakeholders involved in preparing Uruguay 92s national communications, and how national institutional capacity had been assessed.
SAUDI ARABIA called for addressing economic diversification to build resilience and EGYPT highlighted vulnerability assessments and developing countries’ urgent needs.
Pointing to various approaches being implemented at the national level, the US, supported by JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, but opposed by GRENADA and CHINA, noted that carbon units should be tracked as they move between countries.
The Russian Federation and Ukraine, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed deleting this paragraph.
Sudan, for the Group of 77 and China , called upon parties to observe the principles of good faith, transparency, inclusiveness and openness.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, and China said sections on market and non-market approaches, and new market-based mechanisms could prejudge discussions under the SBs.
BARBADOS lamented the “unequal way” of dealing with controversial issues, noting that the text contained reference to response measures while no references to LDCs and SIDS were included.
Stressing the urgency of climate change, Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the Dialogue to focus on identifying effective strategies, solutions, and untapped opportunities to enable ambitious climate actions, including means of implementation.
The EU, Switzerland and Norway, opposed by Japan, expressed an interest in exploring how the methodologies outlined in the technical paper would apply to actual pledges on the table.
On co-financing, JAPAN and the US said a reference to the importance of co-financing for GEF projects should be retained.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the group’s mandate is to consider the “full, sustained and effective implementation of the Convention,” particularly implementation of Convention Articles 4.1 and 4.5  and urged parties not to digress from this mandate.
The MA continued in the afternoon, with presentations by Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco and Portugal.
Mexico, the Philippines and others said that relevant contextual elements need to be defined.
Mali, for the African Group, expressed disappointment in the lack of pre-2020 action, noting that only 84 parties have ratified the Doha Amendment.
Malaysia, for the G-77/China, underscored the importance of meeting the needs identified in the technological needs assessments , and asked for a full review of implementation of COP decisions related to technology transfer since COP 1.
Switzerland noted his proposed global carbon dioxide levy to generate resources for adaptation and China suggested establishing a Convention adaptation fund and adaptation committee.
On the title of the draft agreement, the Russian Federation, opposed by China, recommended deleting the option of “implementing agreement.”
China’s proposal to delete the specific reference to black carbon was met with strong opposition from the US, UK, Austria and Canada.
Regarding the provisional agenda, the UK, for the EU, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, objected to the inclusion of agenda item 10 on Article 2.3  on the grounds that it is addressed elsewhere.
NEW ZEALAND urged an integrated domestic and international trading system, while SAMOA noted that such a system was not mentioned in Protocol Article 17 , and highlighted the need to discuss it in the context of the nature and scope of emissions trading.
During the closing AWG-KP plenary, the G-77/China again expressed concern that some options introduced in the mechanisms group were outside the mandate of the group, and the EU urged that mandate issues be resolved.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to operationalize the LDC, Adaptation, and Special Climate Change Funds.
KOREA and NIGERIA stressed that emissions trading should supplement national reductions and cautioned that rules to govern it must be defined in advance to avoid compliance and verification problems.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the US and the EU, emphasized that discussions on response measures should be separate from those on adaptation.
AUSTRIA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported the experiment of using anonymous reviews.
Cuba called the suggestion of “money for adoption of the Accord” a form of “blackmail.” Bolivia proposed adopting it as a MISC document and listing those countries that participated in its development.
The Conference was held as part of the final stage of the UNEP/GEF project "Economics of Climate Change Limitation," ran in parallel with the conference for Latin America held in Quito, Ecuador from 21 - 22 May.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted that some areas of the Bali Action Plan have not been thoroughly addressed and that the mechanisms established for adaptation and other issues are not yet operational.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, supported by Ethiopia, for the LDCs, and others, emphasized ensuring understanding of the potential consequences of policies and measures on developing country economies, and creating a system to minimize and prevent negative impacts on developing countries.
The EU distinguished GEF review from future guidance; and, with SWITZERLAND, CANADA and VENEZUELA, proposed making it the permanent FCCC financing mechanism, subject to future reviews.
CANADA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed deleting a “protocol” as a possible way of establishing an MCP.
Saudi Arabia, supported by China, said the report would need to reflect the views of delegations that believe the highlights are selective and out of context.
On other gases, Venezuela, supported by the African Group, suggested eliminating all content that is being discussed under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer or the Kyoto Protocol, such as new gases.
On  , South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said that starting to report on a regular basis is more important than reporting in a transparent manner.
India, supported by the US, proposed specifying that taxes are cost-effective for setting a price for carbon.
The US and SINGAPORE indicated that there are other avenues to discuss IPRs.
On review, the EU called for a commitment cycle of 10 years and, supported by the US, for a five-year cycle of review and revision.
President Macky Sall, Senegal, said equity implied international support for electrification of Least Developed Countries  by renewable sources and called for more resources to the GCF to support adaptation.
AUSTRALIA, the US, and the EU opposed this, with the EU saying that the proposal was substantive while the APA conclusions are procedural.
CANADA, with the EU, and opposed by INDIA, said the proposed adjustment in the definition would be required for the CACAM group to gain representation on the Expert Group on Technology Transfer.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported extension of the LEG’s mandate to enable the LEG to provide assistance for the implementation of the LDCs work programme.
The Gambia, on behalf of LDCs, reaffirmed the importance of a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested the technology framework provide guidance on technology assessments.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, objected to the omission of their proposals on share of proceeds and regional distribution from the new draft text.
Algeria, for the African Group, said the financial crisis should not delay action and welcomed efforts to improve distribution of CDM projects.
The Netherlands, supported by Austria, called for making the section on robust findings and key uncertainties more substantial, explicit and visible in the report.
On a sub-paragraph on disaster preparedness and management, CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA and the US, said disaster prevention was impossible, and the terminology should reflect this.
ARGENTINA, with the PHILIPPINES, stressed the Adaptation Fund is contributing to the operationalization of the Paris Agreement and supported a procedural decision on this issue.
 ARGENTINA, the US and IRAN expressed concerns regarding participation of developing countries in scientific programmes.
Several parties, including JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and the US, emphasized the role of existing institutions.
Speaking on behalf of Italy 92s Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, Altero Matteoli, Italy 92s Minister for the Environment and Territory, said the Draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe provides for EU Member States to fulfill their obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
China, for the LMDCs, proposed defining accounting and, opposed by the EU, developing accounting guidance for technology and capacity-building support.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, with CHINA, CUBA, SOUTH AFRICA, EGYPT, INDIA, IRAQ and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed that a contact group consider how to follow up on the high-level roundtable that took place at the 40th sessions of the Subsidiary Bodies.
GERMANY reported on the 6th Petersberg Dialogue, which took place from 17-19 May 2015, in Berlin, Germany.
The two key bodies under the Bali Roadmap are the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP, which held four negotiation sessions in 2008: in April in Bangkok, Thailand; in June in Bonn, Germany; in August in Accra, Ghana; and in December in Poznan, Poland.
Mexico, for the EIG, called for progress on: MRV, especially regarding guidelines for the reporting of domestically supported NAMAs; methodological guidance on REDD+; methodological work on good practice guidance on land use, land-use change and forestry ; and grouping all matters related to response measures under a single agenda item.
CANADA, SAMOA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and MAURITIUS favored a combined approach for negotiating P&amp;Ms and QELROS.
This was supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, as well as Barbados, Tuvalu, Costa Rica, Belize, Bahamas, Senegal, Kenya, Solomon Islands, Cook Islands, Palau and the Dominican Republic.
Croatia, with others, underscored the need to be proactive, while India and the Netherlands emphasized engaging governments and NGOs working at the local level.
BRAZIL and PERU said natural regeneration is a management approach according to the IPCC Special Report, and is not always human-induced.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA welcomed the summary note as a starting effort to capture progress.
Nepal, for the LDCs, said nationally-determined commitments could lead to an insufficient level of action to protect the climate system, and called for separate contact groups for the two workstreams.
Turkey and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, said contributions could be revised on a voluntary basis.
Brazil said ministerials should be held “sparingly,” when concrete policies can be proposed to them, and, with AOSIS and the EU, agreed to work on improving TEMs’ output.
SAUDI ARABIA noted market distortions, and said tax made up 80% of the final price of oil in some OECD countries.
 On other matters, Parties adopted the draft decision on the letter from the Central Asia, Caucasus, Albania and Moldova countries on their status under the UNFCCC.
CANADA and the UK said modeling should address net rather than gross impacts.
 The RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted that the G-77/China proposal did not accurately reflect the language of the Convention.
The EU and Norway called for eligibility requirements to be addressed.
Mexico and Saudi Arabia supported its inclusion in the chapter, and the Co-Chairs suggested including it as an example at the end of the bullet point.
Ecuador, for the LMDCs, supported by INDIA, called for a dedicated discussion on transparency of support in line with the time allocation for transparency of action, and for more time to discuss MOI.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, suggested considering the level of mitigation ambition by developed countries.
Egypt, with China, endorsed differentiation between elements requiring Protocol amendment and those that can be adopted as COP/MOP decisions.
Brazil, Panama, India and the EU identified the UNFCCC as the right forum for bunker fuel discussions.
MICRONESIA called for methodologies to help countries determine emission reduction projections and supported SWITZERLAND’s request that the Secretariat develop a directory related to AIJ work.
Sudan, for the African Group, and Malaysia, for the LMDCs, underlined that developed country parties should have quantified economy-wide targets.
 This session was facilitated by co-facilitator Sarah Baashan, and focused on the proposals for unpacking this section made by Australia, the EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed commitment to being part of a durable, fair, effective and comprehensive outcome with the participation of all major economies.
On the actions to be taken if calculations raise a Party 92s "required" level of commitment period reserve above the Party 92s holdings of ERUs, CERs and AAUs, AUSTRALIA and CANADA supported reference to "recommended" level.
Norway and Mexico said their proposals on financing arrangements should be reflected in full.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, underscored emerging consensus on a balanced package, comprising, inter alia, an: effective and predictable finance mechanism; an adaptation mechanism; and a delicate balance in mitigation between commitments and voluntary actions.
On  , New Zealand, the Russian Federation, Australia and Japan indicated that pledges will not simply be translated into QELROs, but that QELROs will need to be negotiated at the political level.
Argentina, Australia, the US, the EU and the Russian Federation proposed looking at possible criteria for differentiation.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stressed, among others, that cooperative approaches could be an additional source of financial resources to facilitate the achievement of NDCs.
On modalities for treatment of CDM projects upon  , China, Brazil, the Philippines and others supported no decision.
Regarding the paragraph on general information to be reported for activities under Protocol Article 3.3  and 3.4 , AUSTRALIA, supported by the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU, cautioned that in many instances the guideline text is more detailed than that contained in the draft decision on LULUCF from COP-6 Part II.
Australia, the Cook Islands and Grenada also welcomed the upcoming UNFCCC special event on observer participation at COP 17.
This approach to consolidation was welcomed by AOSIS, MEXICO, NORWAY and the EU, but the EU stressed that further consideration of all the proposals would be needed.
Saint Lucia, opposed by Canada, proposed an additional sentence from the WGII SPM, stating that some risk from adverse impacts will remain for all levels of adaptation and mitigation.
ECUADOR supported references to “integrity, legitimacy and reputation,” which others opposed, with the US noting these did not have shared definitions.
Canada, supported by Bolivia, Ecuador, Norway, Venezuela, Indonesia and Future Earth, proposed developing guidelines for including indigenous and local knowledge in AR6 products.
The EU and Gabon facilitated work to consolidate text on MRV.
Maldives, for the Alliance of Small of Island States , and Honduras, for the Central American Integration System , called for scaling up climate action.
ALGERIA, CHINA, IRAN, UAE and others said a review should not imply any new commitments for non-Annex I parties.
  South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, voiced concern over the unbalanced placement of issues in the Co-Chairs’ Tool, and called for progress on pre-2020 ambition.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China requested additional time so that the G-77 and China could continue to work on preparing its own amendments regarding this matter.
On the G-77/CHINA suggestion to make the reports, conclusions and recommendations available to the public upon request, IRAN and the US noted the Secretariat\'s existing dissemination procedures.
Micronesia said that COP-1 should set targets beyond 2000 and urged all Parties to give the AOSIS protocol full consideration and support.
Mali and Malaysia highlighted the importance of using grey literature in all WGs.
The Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, stressed the need to avoid duplication of efforts under the SBI and AWG-LCA.
The EU, AOSIS, ICELAND, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and others called for a comprehensive global agreement.
Suriname, for AOSIS, welcomed progress on the NWP, noting the importance of translating increased awareness and support into action on the ground.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the provision of finance for increasing developing countries’ ambition.
During discussions on draft conclusions, the EU argued that informals should be closed to  non-parties unless Protocol parties give their consent, while the US and Australia considered that Protocol Articles 13.2 and 15.2 establish the right of UNFCCC parties to participate.
GERMANY stated that apparently considerable doubt remained on the German position, in light of comments by China.
Papua New Guinea, Turkey and Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the importance of the paragraph and, with Yemen, supported the suggestion by the Russian Federation.
With CANADA and others, the G-77/CHINA called for Barcelona to be “the end of the road” for the LULUCF accounting discussions.
On the Committee’s independent experts, NEW ZEALAND and the EU noted that privileges and immunities are also considered under the SBI.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed openness to the Presiding Officers undertaking intersessional work as needed.
The UK, supported by the US, noted a piecemeal approach to deciding on special reports in the future has to be avoided.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP said it was somewhat reassured by the statement of US regarding their proposal, and stressed the need for verifiability and additionality.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said the communications should show how parties are contributing to the global goal on adaptation, without being punitive.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said the functions and characteristics are different.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, suggested that work on the NWP and reform of the CDM could be completed at this meeting.
Argentina, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, cited gaps in the implementation of Protocol Article 3.14 .
Calling for significant action by major economies, he highlighted measures by the US and China in their economic stimulus packages to promote clean energy.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to engage in discussions on the important matter.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that action on adaptation and loss and damage cannot be deferred to after 2020.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, noted differences between CDM and JI, cautioning that DOEs and CDM methodologies should not be applied automatically.
MOROCCO, supported by the UK, queried how an observer organization might have its status revoked.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the COP 23 outcomes provide a strong platform to continue to progress work next year on the Paris mandates.
Saudi Arabia, China and Brazil opposed the creation of new market mechanisms and underscored that the existing Protocol mechanisms are sufficient.
NORWAY and SINGAPORE suggested that the International Maritime Organization  and the International Civil Aviation Organization  update the group on recent activities, while SAUDI ARABIA said this was not the venue for observer organizations to give reports.
Norway, supported by Germany and Sweden, asked for the inclusion of air pollution.
94 Supported by NORWAY and the US, BELGIUM proposed distinguishing more clearly between leakage from ocean and geological storage.
She noted that the G-77/China and the EU have submitted proposals for a draft COP decision, and invited the G-77/China and the EU to explain their submissions.
COP 21 President Fabius invited, and parties agreed, to take note of the resolution presented by Morocco thanking France, as the host government, and the city of Paris .
On demonstrable progress, the EU, opposed by the US, expressed support for an obligation for each Party to demonstrate, in its national communication, progress in meeting its commitments by 2005.
King Norodom Sihamoni, Cambodia, called for: maintaining the impetus provided by the initial capitalization of the GCF; funding for LDCs; and stimulating private investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, said references to response measures should be bracketed.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stressed that a draft legal text would be the best tool to assist parties in their deliberations in Katowice.
The United Kingdom, supported by Switzerland and Australia, emphasized the need for sound methodologies in order to get the resources required.
Belize, for SICA, emphasized the importance of the CGE work programme and the need for updated training materials on non-Annex I parties e2 80 99 national communications, and called for progress on adaptation with a focus on implementation, noting that adequate and sustainable progress cannot be made without adequate and sustainable funding.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, underscored compensation for victims of climate change and immediate funding and implementation of completed National Adaptation Plans of Action.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, urged the SBI to fulfill its mandate to review the implementation of the Convention, including Annex I parties’ emission reduction efforts.
Burkina Faso, for LDCs, supported categorization of countries.
Brazil highlighted that the diversity of situations should be captured, and with the US, supported addressing these issues further during negotiations.
Egypt, Pakistan and others called for the consideration of how to conclude institutional arrangements between the Green Climate Fund  and the COP.
Tuvalu and India noted that sectoral crediting mechanisms “will flood the markets” and urged considering their environmental implications.
Switzerland, for the EIG, noted the need for advance work in 2018 on substance.
  In the morning’s contact group, Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted that the non-paper would be the basis for further discussion on positions and structure rather than for negotiation.
BOTSWANA, with Angola, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of funding capacity building to undertake MRV.
However, China, with Saudi Arabia, opposed this formulation, and supported using only 93scenarios, 94 stating that other scenarios are also covered.
Parties emphasized the urgency and importance of adaptation, with the EU reiterating its proposal for a framework of action on adaptation, and AOSIS suggesting a committee on adaptation under the Convention.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, said the group expects Annex B parties to reconsider their commitments, making every effort to increase them with a view to eliminating the pre-2020 mitigation gap.
 On capacity building, China, for the G-77/China, supported further discussion on, inter alia: institutions, financial mechanisms, monitoring and performance tools.
Following queries from Switzerland, supported by Morocco, participants accepted a suggestion from South Africa to specify that global economic impacts are e2 80 9ccurrently e2 80 9d difficult to estimate.
The US, supported by JAPAN, said the action was inappropriate and a statement in the record was insufficient.
Brazil, on behalf of the G-77/China, then introduced a text for a new Part III bis that addresses the terminology "initial AA" and replaces it with "amounts that contribute to the compliance of a Party included in Annex I with the quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment under Article 3."
Bangladesh, Switzerland, the Philippines and Tanzania expressed support for the text.
The US, BRAZIL, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BOLIVIA opposed including definitions of “REDD+” and, with Malaysia, for the LMDCs, of “climate forcers.”
South Africa, for the African Group, expressed concern with proposals to link NAMAs to the carbon market and noted that MRV of NAMA support by developed countries requires more consideration.
Following consultations between the Netherlands and Brazil, the Netherlands reported that Brazil would host the meeting, with major contributions from the Netherlands.
ICELAND, supported by AUSTRALIA, expressed concern over the difficulties posed to small countries arising from the setting of quantified limits on single project emissions and called for the adoption of a threshold value for significant proportional impact and separate reporting of process emissions.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA supported either discount or multiplication factors, and ARGENTINA expressed support for multiplication factors.
Bolivia, on behalf of ALBA, lamented efforts to “eliminate the Kyoto Protocol,” underlined the urgency of the AWG-KP’s work and said this must be concluded at COP/MOP 6 in Cancun.
ARGENTINA and AOSIS supported the draft decision.
 SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and ALGERIA highlighted inconsistencies in the technical paper, including the use of a number of different base years.
On including  , Saudi Arabia, Japan, Nigeria, Kuwait, Iran, the EU, New Zealand, Ghana and others supported retaining the option, while AOSIS, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Gambia and others preferred no decision.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, objected to any review of non-Annex I communications.
Delegates agreed to change the chapter title to “Open oceans.” South Africa said this should include seas, and Norway noted the importance of addressing ocean acidification.
On the means of enhancing observer organizations engagement through, inter alia, guiding the facilitators of informal consultations to propose the meetings be open to observers when they consider this would not impede negotiations SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others suggested deleting the text or changing the language, noting that this is the current practice and there is no need to reflect it in SBI conclusions.
On language stating that e2 80 9cwhile local governments and the private sector have different functions, they are increasingly recognized as critical to progress in adaptation, e2 80 9d El Salvador, with Nicaragua, observed that the sentence does not correspond to reality as the private sector has played a secondary role in adaptation.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized accommodating variables that capture the uniqueness of national characteristics and examining welfare, GDP, employment, investment and trade indicators.
Bolivia requested that the agenda item on REDD be held in abeyance as well and proposed broadening the title of the agenda item to “measures with regard to forests.” This was opposed by Colombia, Malaysia, Guyana, Suriname, Australia and Costa Rica.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, introduced document FCCC/CP/1995/L.11, a resolution expressing appreciation to Germany and the city of Berlin, which the Conference adopted.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, supported by Australia, called for discussion of objectives and scope.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, the US and Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted that many issues require further consideration by the CMA before such a decision can be made.
 ARMENIA, for the CACAM group of countries, said the group was seeking clarification on the definition of the term "developing countries," and on their status in the context of UNFCCC decisions, including those taken at COP-6.
With regard to evidence of consequences, Australia, the EU and Japan highlighted the need for evidence of negative consequences, while the G-77/China and others voiced concern with this proposal.
SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT expressed concern about the COP’s failure to adopt the rules of procedure and said that a compromise must be reached soon.
The G-77/CHINA said the New Zealand proposal should be dropped and that the group would not participate in a contact group as a matter of principle.
Bolivia, opposed by Papua New Guinea, stressed that they had proposed deleting a paragraph stipulating that any units generated from market-based mechanisms to be established under the Convention or its instruments may be used by Annex I parties to assist them in achieving compliance with their quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said negotiations on numbers are secondary to political discussions on the second commitment period.
The US, supported by the Netherlands, proposed moving sub-paragraph 1 to follow 2, since it deals with the same topic.
France, on behalf of the EU, said Annex I countries should take the lead on reduction commitments, and called for a global market with liquidity, clear price signals, and cost-effective means to reduce emissions.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said inter alia, the EIG is committed to an ambitious, fair and balanced climate regime.
South Africa, the Federated States of Micronesia and Brazil questioned the inclusion in the note of a target for Croatia of 5% emission reductions from 1990 levels, noting that Croatia announced a 6% increase from 1990 levels.
 Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, Jordan, Andorra, Lebanon, Mongolia, Namibia, Togo, and Tunisia presented their biennial update reports.
On allowing borrowing of assigned amount from future commitment periods, the G-77/CHINA supported no decision on the issue, while UKRAINE and CANADA preferred maintaining the option.
COP-1 will consider and take "appropriate action" on the draft protocol submitted by Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, and the proposals for further elements of a protocol submitted by Germany.
AUSTRALIA, generally supported by CANADA, JAPAN, CHINA, and NEW ZEALAND, called for a simple legally-binding instrument administered by the FCCC Secretariat.
The Solomon Islands underscored the vulnerability of SIDS and LDCs and called for stabilization of concentrations below 350 ppm.
 On soil carbon sinks, Sweden, supported by Germany and the Netherlands, underscored the potential non-permanence of the sinks.
Sweden, for the EU, highlighted the importance of: increased ambition on mid-term reductions; inclusion of emissions from the international aviation and maritime transport sectors; fast-track and long-term financing that includes the private sector and carbon markets; and action on a performance-based mechanism for REDD.
 During the joint SBI/SBSTA contact group on Protocol Articles 2.3  and 3.14 , Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that issues under Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 do not require symmetrical treatment.
To take the concerns of Saudi Arabia and Pakistan into account, an additional sentence was added, stating that, from the next session, the agenda item will be: “Organization of the future work of the IPCC in light of the global stocktake.”
President Szyszko reported that he was still conducting consultations on proposals from Turkey and Kazakhstan to amend the lists in Annexes I and II of the FCCC.
Bolivia, Colombia, the US, Iran, Honduras, Chile and Norway supported the inclusion of sinks projects in the CDM.
Parties then considered a new submission from Barbados, for AOSIS, and the Gambia, for LDCs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said key elements of mitigation and transparency are missing from the Co-Chairs’ iteration.
The US noted that it is uncertain “what the configuration of Copenhagen might be regarding the fate of the Kyoto Protocol” and suggested addressing such uncertainty by adding language that: “the COP shall take decisions necessary to enable the applicability of the CDM under this agreement.” ALGERIA noted that countries wishing to use the CDM could ratify the Protocol.
NIGERIA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, noted the technology concerns of developing countries and called for the immediate formation of a contact group.
SOUTH AFRICA reiterated the G-77/ China 92s support for mandatory consequences.
In response to Belgium, SAUDI ARABIA said the UNFCCC 92s aim is not to reduce oil dependency.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the report on progress in implementing the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation .
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BRAZIL and SAINT LUCIA, and opposed by KAZAKHSTAN and BELARUS, proposed deleting option 4, which states that Article 3.7ter refers to the preceding commitment period of that party.
Algeria, with Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, China, Malaysia and Egypt, opposed this as being premature.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, put forward an initial list of suggestions for the TAPs concerning timing, carbon cycles, associated impacts of climate change, assistance for the development of national capabilities and adaptation measures.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL then provided clarification regarding their proposals on various issues such as Annex I parties’ commitments and carryover of surplus AAUs, and also identified mistakes in the Chair’s text.
Opposed by AOSIS, BOTSWANA and IRAN, the EU, with SWITZERLAND, proposed that AIJ should be credited retroactively.
On Friday, 6 June, the G-77/China and Tuvalu said the implementation of the guidelines will require additional financial resources and capacity building, and, with the EU, emphasized the need to focus on vulnerability and adaptation, and greenhouse gas inventories.
BRAZIL, the EU, TUVALU and CANADA stressed consideration of whether activities are best considered under the CDM or NAMAs.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed a reference to the private sector addressing a range of priority needs, stressing lack of evidence of the private sector’s contribution to capacity building.
Saudi Arabia, supported by the Russian Federation, Egypt, Jordan, Venezuela, India, Australia, the Maldives, the Republic of Korea and Pakistan, proposed text highlighting that  , as stated in the WGIII SPM.
Bolivia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ecuador expressed concern over the unbalanced text, particularly considering developed and developing countries’ mitigation, with Bolivia saying that the text, inter alia: lacks a compliance system to monitor developed countries’ commitments, which is particularly relevant for those not subscribing to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol; places excessive requirements on mitigation for developing countries; does not reflect CBDR; and favors the creation and use of markets.
AUSTRALIA announced new Prime Minister Kevin Rudd 92s intention for Australia to ratify the Kyoto Protocol expeditiously, and to reduce emissions by 60% by 2050 and introduce an emissions trading system.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for: reference to Agreement Article 4.6  in guidance for the mitigation section; loss and damage in the transparency framework; and including loss and damage in the overarching scope of, and as a source of input for, the GST.
Regarding guidelines for national systems, the EU, with JAPAN, said they should be flexible in order to reflect differing national circumstances.
NORWAY welcomed the Chair’s proposed organization of work, and with the EU, supported focusing on essential issues for Copenhagen.
The EU, with the US, stated that entitlements for trading have already been established under the Kyoto Protocol.
Guatemala, for AILAC, stressed the need to adopt the PCCB terms of reference and prioritize the Committee’s work in 2017, and emphasized transparency as a critical pillar of the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
On institutional arrangements, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ALGERIA and ARGENTINA preferred anchoring institutional arrangements in the TEC and CTCN.
On mitigation , BOLIVIA, with VENEZUELA, urged the inclusion of non-market mechanisms.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to take into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, highlighting that non-Annex I countries should not have stricter obligations concerning national communications than Annex I countries.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, the EU and NORWAY highlighted the futility of lengthy mandate discussions.
The Russian Federation, South Africa, Togo and others emphasized the importance of having a map.
 Numerous countries, including AUSTRALIA and the US, supported the work programme.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for work in Doha to focus on the outstanding issues, including managing the transition to the second commitment period from 1 January 2013, and ensuring that Kyoto Protocol infrastructure and mechanisms continue to deliver.
On "questions of implementation," the US, G-77/China, Brazil and India opposed Japan 92s proposal to limit this concept to the mandatory requirements of the guidelines under Articles 5.1  and 7.2 .
BARBADOS, for AOSIS, called for further implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action.
The “potential approach,” as favored by the US and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, would use annual data on production, exports, imports and destruction.
Brazil, supported by China, said preparing new texts and focusing subsequent discussions on how to take them forward created the impression that text negotiated by parties would not form the basis of further work.
CHINA and IRAN proposed that the TAR contain a section on the impact of activities by Annex I on non-Annex I countries.
Brazil, Tuvalu and others expressed concern with the concept, in particular with how the bars for individual countries would be set.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, proposed including a template for understanding underlying assumptions for NAMAs.
India, supported by Venezuela, proposed replacing "22 countries" and "eight countries" with "some countries."
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, underscored the need to consider a formalized process to refine the scale of financial resources required, including a regular adjustment process.
On a paragraph in the draft conclusions outlining progress at SB-10 and SB-11, AUSTRALIA and the US suggested replacing 93procedures and mechanisms 94 relating to a compliance system with 93procedures and processes, 94 in order to include consideration of Protocol Articles 8  and 16 .
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the role of non-state actors in implementation and supported the Presidency’s approach to informally continue the APA’s work in the second week.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that negotiations under the ADP must seek to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Convention.
AUSTRALIA stressed the link between discussions on loss and damage and national adaptation plans  and, supported by the US, proposed that regional meetings focus on risk reduction, retention and transfer.
Algeria, for the African Group, reiterated that the AWG-LCA track should be separate from the Protocol negotiations.
Supported by the US, the G-77/CHINA said adaptation efforts should be guided by the best available science and, where appropriate, traditional knowledge.
This statement was supported by Germany, the US, Samoa, Australia, Hungary, New Zealand, Canada, Norway, Japan, Argentina, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago  and Equatorial Guinea.
Sudan, on behalf of the AFRICA GROUP, cautioned that a sectoral approach may marginalize local knowledge and called for a thematic and livelihoods approach.
Many members, including Canada, Republic of Korea, Norway, Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico, the US and others suggested further consideration of these proposals in light of the AR6 scoping process.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concerns over a lack of balance in progress, including limited progress on finance, and unresolved challenges in accessing Global Environment Facility resources.
INDONESIA and BRAZIL proposed bracketing of paragraphs on biofuels, as well as on REDD and emissions displacement.
Delegates discussed the role of the Consultative Group of Experts , and Kenya and Vanuatu drew attention to the financial shortfall facing the CGE.
Opposed by the G-77/CHINA, AUSTRALIA suggested welcoming "significant" progress in the implementation of 5/CP.7.
ARGENTINA and URUGUAY underlined the importance of addressing the agricultural sector.
  Under this agenda item , Nepal, for the LDCs, highlighted transparency and verifiability.
Delegates completed discussions on the elements for a draft decision on best practices in P&amp;Ms. CANADA, the US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA, opposed by the EU, urged bracketing all references to the "consultative process."
Bangladesh, for LDCs, spoke about micro-insurance and tools and methodologies to assist LDCs.
With AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, the US proposed identifying what should go in the agreement and what should go in decisions.
 The UK identified the need to consider the role of the UNFCCC in technology cooperation in the longer term, and ICELAND said one element of this could involve encouraging cooperation between the government and private sectors.
During the CMP closing plenary on Friday, 12 December, CMP 10 Vice-President Voto-Bernales informed that two further instruments of acceptance have been received from Tuvalu and Nauru, and urged parties to accelerate ratification.
The inclusion of human rights in the preamble of the agreement was celebrated by many, including Venezuela and Bolivia.
Bangladesh voiced dismay at “efforts to undermine the special status of LDCs and SIDS.” Ukraine noted the special status of EITs.
Stressing that good practice in P&amp;Ms applies to Annex I Parties, SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed inserting reference to this in all appropriate parts of the text.
  At the request of the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Adaptation Fund Chair Richard Muyungi presented a summary of activities.
The NETHERLANDS, for the EU, said the last decade and the entry into force of the Protocol have provided the foundations for increased international action on climate change.
They were divided over exact membership numbers, with the EU, SLOVENIA, the US and others favoring under 15 members while the G-77/CHINA called for 25 members.
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed concern over systematic attempts to lower expectations for Copenhagen and recalled that, according to the mandate agreed in Bali, the AWG-LCA should complete its work in 2009.
SOUTH AFRICA stressed the need for scarcity in the market to increase the carbon price, and SENEGAL highlighted that the carbon market should function as an incentive for investment.
Maldives, for AOSIS, Peru, for AILAC, INDONESIA, and INDIA said new submissions were not necessary at this point.
In the early hours of 17 November, in a small high-level negotiating group, the Russian Federation yielded to the G-77/China and agreed to compromise draft conclusions proposed by the President that deferred discussions to COP/MOP 3, with a workshop in May 2007.
Adverse effects: The G-77/CHINA, NEPAL and others said developing countries are the most affected by climate change, and Annex I countries must implement their commitments relating to provision of financial resources and technology transfer.
The African Group emphasized equal treatment of adaptation and mitigation, and the special needs of Africa, small island developing states  and the LDCs.
The Republic of Korea supported either discount or multiplication factors; Argentina expressed support for multiplication factors.
SENEGAL and INDIA said they could not accept the text as a G-77/China proposal and requested time for consultations.
MALAYSIA and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP emphasized the importance of technology, finance and capacity building.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said a shared vision should provide a framework for cooperation among all parties, and include a long-term climate objective and ways and means to reach it.
INDIA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, called for an integrated summary of the work done on ambition under the ADP, AWG-LCA and AWG-KP.
Twenty panelists examined various aspects of CCS, including: technology options ; pilot projects in Canada, Algeria, and the Netherlands; financial and monitoring challenges; nascent ocean storage technology; the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum; policy and legal issues; applying CCS emission estimation methodologies in national greenhouse gas inventories; training courses to build awareness and capacity; an EU policy framework for CCS; and risk assessment.
SWITZERLAND, the US and NORWAY underscored the need for stakeholder participation and transparency in the CDM.
The US, with the Netherlands, called for a reference to sectors and, on SBSTA 92s work, she proposed to use language along the lines that SBSTA 93will explore 94 the actions identified in the programme of work, instead of using other verbs such as 93promote, 94 93improve 94 or 93collect.
Venezuela, for ALBA, expressed concern with some parties questioning the validity of the Convention after 20 years and “reinterpreting” certain terms.
Vanuatu, on behalf of the LDCs, cited marginalization in the process, and requested that their special needs be considered.
The G-77/CHINA, NORWAY, CHINA, AOSIS, BRAZIL, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and the AFRICAN GROUP called for retaining 1990 as the base year for the sake of simplicity, comparability and transparency.
On the temperature scale, New Zealand, Switzerland and others voiced concern about the top range of the table at 5 b0C, with Co-Chair Parry explaining that there are not many estimations above 5 b0C.
Chile, also speaking for Peru, Colombia, Costa Rica, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic and Panama, highlighted the importance of identifying points of common understanding.
The EU suggested, and the G-77/CHINA agreed, discussing whether the communications related to national adaptation plans and other processes should be addressed in the agreement or in COP decisions.
The US called for all parties except the LDCs to submit mitigation contributions that are quantified or quantifiable.
The AFRICAN GROUP, the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for including response measures in the agreement.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and AUSTRALIA stressed NDCs’ nationally-determined nature.
Sudan, with Sierra Leone and Indonesia, noted the need to make better use of focal points for communications with experts rather than offices of foreign affairs.
On a preambular paragraph regarding the ultimate objective of the Convention requiring e2 80 9cstrengthening the multilateral, rules-based regime e2 80 9d and implementation of existing commitments, the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by PAKISTAN and opposed by the EU, preferred e2 80 9cmultilateral, rules-based regime under the Convention.
Nigeria and Morocco suggested supporting small projects in Africa.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said GEF reforms are encouraging but inadequate, noting the need to strengthen urgent priorities for beneficiaries.
The EU, Japan and New Zealand highlighted related proposals for Protocol amendments, as well as links with adaptation and finance discussions under the AWG-LCA.
Kuwait, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that, for many, the NDCs include mitigation, adaptation and other elements.
The US and AUSTRALIA said countries could demonstrate progress through institutional and legal steps taken to achieve Protocol Article 3.1 commitments, while JAPAN suggested the assessment be based on national communications.
The EU, supported by Norway, proposed having an option stating that no decision should be taken on this issue.
Following suspension of the plenary for informal consultations, Saudi Arabia, supported by Venezuela, Kuwait and Qatar, said they could not accept the proposed compromise text, which would have included reference to spillover effects.
Brazil and India expressed concern about the possible proliferation of bilateral mechanisms and, with China, noted the value of the CDM.
Mexico thanked Denmark for hosting the Conference, saying delegates were received and welcomed by “warm people” and expressed gratitude to the Government and people of Denmark, especially the city of Copenhagen.
Venezuela, on behalf of the G-77/China, said examination of the term "developing countries" was not necessary.
During the discussion, Costa Rica, Saint Lucia and Norway also supported a technical paper by the Secretariat.
The NETHERLANDS, with the US, stressed the importance of reviewing fact sheets.
Trinidad and Tobago, supported by other small island developing states, stressed that the NDC assessment was critically important.
 The EU drew attention to low-cost mitigation potentials identified by IPCC Working Group III and stressed that “costs of action are small compared to costs of inaction.” Switzerland, speaking for the Environmental Integrity Group, called for mitigation efforts that take into account national circumstances.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/China, stressed the need to enhance pre-2020 action and respect the “delicate balance of all issues” achieved in Paris.
COLOMBIA, with BRAZIL, supported consideration of agriculture and water resource management under existing agenda items.
Panama, on behalf of Central American countries and the Dominican Republic, stressed environmental integrity.
The EU, Uganda, for the LDCs, and others stressed that a sense of urgency to undertake enhanced action on financing for mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer should be stated clearly, as well as the need to prioritize support for vulnerable developing countries.
Many parties supported the proposal by Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, to structure the mitigation section around: long-term global goal on mitigation; individual commitments; characteristics; arrangements/mechanisms; and mandate/authority for the governing body.
CANADA, the EU, ZIMBABWE, ITALY, MOROCCO, the PHILIPPINES and CHILE called for equitable geographic representation.
Denmark and Switzerland and others objected.
France, the Netherlands and others regretted that stabilization was not mentioned, but agreed to the proposal.
The G-77/CHINA also stressed that financial institutions that “we have now” are “empty shells” and, with the AFRICAN GROUP and many developing countries, expressed concern over the finance gap between 2012 and 2020.
SWITZERLAND described an international expert meeting for assessing and meeting technology needs, which was co-sponsored by the Netherlands.
SPAIN, SWEDEN, ARGENTINA, KENYA, JAPAN and others supported taking a decision on the Synthesis Report at this session.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND, AOSIS, NORWAY and others supported considering the development of standardized, multi-project baselines, with AOSIS noting the need to improve access to the CDM.
Australia, the US and Japan gave further clarification of their proposals for common mitigation frameworks for all parties, while developing countries opposed their discussion.
The EU and SWITZERLAND supported describing the purpose of MOI.
AUSTRALIA expressed reservation about proposals to consider paragraphs 17-18 of Decision 1/CP.20  in detail, while SOUTH AFRICA stressed the importance of advancing this work.
WGII Vice-Chair Sergey Semenov, Saudi Arabia, the Russian Federation, Dominican Republic and Algeria expressed concerns over potential ambiguities in the form, with Saudi Arabia suggesting that the Committee learn from the policies of other international organizations, revise the form and return to this issue at a future meeting.
BRAZIL said the G-77/CHINA would be developing a negotiating position on this issue in the light of the new IPCC Special Report.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, underlined the importance of a second commitment period that ensures environmental integrity, takes account of the rules-based regime and limits access to the flexibility mechanisms to Annex I parties with commitments.
e2 80 9d The US and Germany objected to this, noting it was still too technical.
The G-77/China and AOSIS also called for reference to the most vulnerable, with AOSIS calling for a special track for SIDS to address urgent needs.
The EU and AUSTRALIA stressed accelerating submission of initial communications, assisted by the GEF.
The EU and Japan welcomed the GEF’s report, while the G-77/China said the report deviates from the Bali mandate.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, BRAZIL, NORWAY and EGYPT supported a single base year of 1990.
Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, expressed appreciation for the GEF’s fifht replenishment, while noting the need to improve access to GEF resources, highlighting the need for country ownership and raising concerns with private sector involvement in procuring funding.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of the SBSTA’s work on REDD and the Nairobi Work Programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation .
Reference was also included to various implementation-related challenges including energy costs, international competition, and depreciation of assets, as suggested by Egypt, and to the potential for maximizing co-benefits, as proposed by Germany.
On production from agriculture and forestry, WGII agreed to proposals by Australia on more specific timeframes and by New Zealand on changing 93benefits 94 to 93initial benefits.
ESTONIA, for the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN, announced that the group had decided to terminate its activities.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, stated that developed countries must take on quantified, economy-wide reduction commitments and called for clear mid- and long-term commitments.
Switzerland, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the inclusion of new documented greenhouse gases and the improvement of the flexibility mechanisms.
 The Cartagena Dialogue for Progressive Action  met in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, from 19-20 July 2012, to discuss key questions ahead of the informal additional sessions of the AWGs and COP 18.
 SWITZERLAND, with HUNGARY, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, SPAIN and KENYA, and opposed by CHINA, stressed the need for flexibility in organizing the IPCC Bureau and opposed reference to Annex C, which lists the composition of the IPCC Bureau and Task Force Bureau, in the definition of the IPCC Bureau.
NEW ZEALAND opposed financial penalties and, with AUSTRALIA, a compliance fund.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called attention to their proposed agenda .
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, called for the development of a preamble.
SIERRA LEONE and LIBERIA called for special consideration for the LDCs.
On the  , the G-77/China, supported by AOSIS and the African Group, preferred a single five-year commitment period with a base year of 1990.
 Balisi Gopolang, Botswana, and Francis Zwiers, Canada, chaired the group and discussions focused on improving data collection, management and observation.
With BENIN and ZIMBABWE, CHINA cautioned against the COP losing focus on the Convention.
Guatemala, for AILAC, underscored the agreement should: be ambitious and universal; prevent backsliding; and lead to gradual scaling up of all commitments.
On definitions, discussion centered on whether Bureau members are countries or persons, with SWITZERLAND and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION favoring reference to countries, while HUNGARY, CANADA, BELGIUM, the NETHERLANDS and SLOVENIA supported reference to persons.
Bahamas and Saudi Arabia expressed concern about setting a precedent.
The Gambia, for the Least Developed Countries , underscored the need to resolve outstanding issues to enable the adoption of a second commitment period.
Angola, for the LDCs, emphasized the importance of discussing the review under the COP.
Brazil, supported by Australia, the US and Switzerland, suggested noting health co-benefits of mitigation policies.
INDIA and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed public sources as the main source.
SOUTH AFRICA and others urged a clear reference to the “six-month rule,” and ZAMBIA and others proposed language on the amendments to be adopted by COP/MOP 5.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, said work should progress on the full scope of the mandate without adding new issues, and said differentiation should be rooted in concrete, not ideological, terms.
The EU noted the differences in quality among the three options and, with Switzerland, for the EIG, said the document could contain all the elements outlined in the options.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a reference to science on keeping the average temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
UGANDA, for the LDCs, said the focus should be on making current institutions more responsive and less expensive due to limited resources.
On adaptation, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the African Group, highlighted the importance of considering the process for LDCs to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and concluding the work programme on loss and damage.
He reiterated his invitation to US President-elect Donald Trump to visit Fiji, stressing “you came to save us during World War II, it is time for you to save us now,” referring to climate change.
With SWITZERLAND and HUNGARY, she emphasized the need for increased domestic action and called for continuation of AIJ and a smooth transition in the future to the CDM and JI.
Canada, with Australia and the Russian Federation, said the issue of legally binding consequences had been deferred to COP/MOP-1.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by COLOMBIA and INDIA, proposed Annex I parties communicate GHG emission limitations and commitments related to financial resources and technology transfer.
France, for the EU, called for a global and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen and expressed readiness to move to full negotiation mode.
The Czech Republic, Morocco, and Slovakia have applied to become Annex 1 Parties.
Japan, with Australia, New Zealand and Canada, opposed including specific quantitative financial commitments, with Australia suggesting “enabling environments, and not quantitative targets, motivate private sector engagement.” Brazil noted that including private sector involvement in the new agreement does not ensure climate finance.
In the contact group on Thursday, 4 December, New Zealand, the G-77/China and Uganda, supported a 9% budget increase.
The US, supported by NORWAY and CANADA and opposed by Panama, for the CfRN, requested removing a reference to the Warsaw Framework for REDD+, saying it is not a body under the Convention.
The EU, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, said they could accept the Co-Chairs 92 text.
SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA opposed discussing markets at this stage.
On procedures for inscribing commitments for Annex I parties under Protocol Annex B, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA, SINGAPORE and SAUDI ARABIA said the current provisions are sufficient.
Opposed by the EU, the G-77/China suggested removing reference to Article 4.2 throughout the draft decision, noting that such reference was judgmental.
Regarding a bullet point on adaptation pathways, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Bolivia, opposed by Norway, asked for the addition of economic diversification, and requested removal of reference to the social cost of carbon, preferring instead to refer to the “social effects of GHG emissions,” which India supported and Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands opposed, with the latter proposing to refer to externalities as an alternative.
Gabon, for the African Group, looked forward to the tools developed by the APA Co-Chairs to further progress.
The UK, supported by Canada, suggested adding a section covering what policies are working effectively in countries.
South Africa, supported by China, cautioned against focusing on peripheral areas of convergence and avoiding core issues.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the US proposal does not address the problems with the current financial mechanism.
Regarding the topics for submissions and workshops, several parties, including China and Brazil, supported inviting parties to submit their views on all elements of the MPGs.
The G-77/CHINA said limited resources require selection of priorities and MALAYSIA urged consideration of capacity building.
Suggesting that Paris will lead to a historical agreement, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, affirmed the group’s confidence in the COP Presidency.
With Australia and Burkina Faso, she also requested reference to particularly vulnerable states, including SIDS and LDCs.
SAUDI ARABIA, with SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES and BRAZIL, suggested adding a sub-heading on objectives.
The US emphasized that costs should include not just the costs of damages but also the costs of response in order to emphasize the value gained by preparedness and, supported by Canada, called for going beyond the climate extremes and impact information contained in the AR4.
On a paragraph on preparation of a negotiating text by May 2015, the EU, supported by SWITZERLAND and the MARSHALL ISLANDS, and opposed by the LMDCs and CANADA, supported maintaining a reference to Article 17 of the Convention .
Brazil, supported by South Africa, explained that developed countries must reduce emissions, while developing countries should take action to reduce emission growth, and clarified that the distinction also applied to measuring, reporting and verifying .
COLOMBIA and GHANA drew attention to CDM potential in the transport sector.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , outlined three important steps for Durban: agreeing on key elements of an international regime after 2012; launching a process to further strengthen the regime in the mid-term; and agreeing on the key elements of a shared vision, including a long-term global goal for emission reductions and a date for peaking of global emissions.
BRAZIL said this would create more “hot air.” BANGLADESH, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and EGYPT stressed a single starting point.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, said inventory estimates of a year during the commitment period that had been adjusted should not be revised and that consequently, adjustments of estimates of both the base year inventory and the inventory during the commitment period could not be revised.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, AUSTRIA, HONDURAS and COSTA RICA said nuclear power should not be permitted within the CDM.
BRAZIL supported non-market based financial mechanisms, while POLAND supported enhancing the role of forests in global carbon markets.
AOSIS and the LDCs called for prioritizing this workstream.
Switzerland, for the EIG, and the EU regretted lack of agreement on including agriculture on the SBSTA agenda.
One country reported discussions had been fruitful and had focused on finding commonalities in the operative text of the merged EU and G-77/CHINA proposals.
SWITZERLAND, COLOMBIA and INDIA highlighted the need for transparency in the Board 92s work and the G-77/CHINA suggested strengthening the text on governance.
Speaking for several developing countries, Iran asked for a postponement of the discussion until COP-6, and Argentina added that the options included were unacceptable.
INDONESIA identified the need to review the rules for the Clean Development Mechanism  and MALAYSIA proposed addressing complex procedures and high transaction costs under the CDM.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said all elements of a legally-binding agreement that guarantees survival of SIDS and other vulnerable developing countries are embedded in the existing text, but that political will is required to realize an agreement.
BRAZIL said there should be no “second-class elements.” CHINA indicated discussions on what goes into the agreement or decisions are premature before agreeing on the legal form of the Paris outcome.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, supported by Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, and Botswana, called for strengthening the long-term global goal to 1.5 c2 b0C.
The Maldives, supported by Mali and others, asked for explicit mention of adaptation costs, which Co-Chair P c3 b6rtner suggested adding to the author guidance.
On the mandate of the facilitation branch, the EU, with the US, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, said cases should be dealt with on their merits and not on the basis of the Party involved.
Past agreements in Kyoto, Cancun, Durban, and Paris benefited from clear leadership from key countries, such as the US, the EU, China, and coalitions like AOSIS and the LDCs, combined with a willingness to build alliances across traditional divides.
Proposing the adoption of the ADP agenda based on what was agreed to in Durban, Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a detailed schedule of work with timetables and milestones for making progress on all items in a balanced manner.
JAPAN stated that text on a shared vision should be part of the agreement and AUSTRALIA called for a message that is both inspirational and operational.
Switzerland, for the EIG, warned against attempts “to revisit everything,” raise “artificially high” expectations and focus on “things that divide us.” JAPAN lamented lack of recognition by developing countries of progress on finance, including fast-track finance and the establishment of the Standing Committee.
The African Group, supported by the EU, said efforts by other multilateral bodies should be recognized under the Convention, for accountability and transparency purposes.
On options for an informal document, stressing that negotiations on the PAWP should remain party-driven, Iran, for LMDCs, and INDONESIA, supported option 1.
Australia and New Zealand questioned the propriety of allocating one full day to support, noting this is only one of the areas needing further discussion.
NORWAY noted the level of convergence and optimism in the pre-sessional consultations and, with NEW ZEALAND, stressed the importance of keeping a balance between bottom-up and top-down approaches.
Also Switzerland, New Zealand, Australia, Uganda and several others supported the idea of continuing the Convention Dialogue process through negotiations.
On emissions from international aviation and maritime transportation, Norway supported a global target for international shipping emissions, while Pakistan and Singapore supported consideration of the issue by specialized agencies such as the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Maritime Organization.
The EU and Umbrella Group supported the proposal to focus on linkages across several APA agenda items.
Canada stressed a country-driven approach, while Norway identified the need to discuss the objectives and principles of a technology transfer framework.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the US, AUSTRALIA and Malawi, for the LDCs, suggested that paragraphs related to deforestation and forest degradation are better addressed under discussions on REDD.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and CANADA, proposed specifying that the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities applied between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Norway, with the US and the EU, underscored the importance of further guidance on safeguards information systems.
 Parties noted proposals by Japan, Tuvalu, US, Australia, Costa Rica and Grenada.
The G-77/China, supported by the African Group and India, emphasized that discussions in Barcelona should focus on two essential issues: minimizing the negative consequences of response measures; and ensuring that policies and measures do not turn into disguised protectionism.
The US, supported by the EU, Norway and others, suggested increasing the proportion of meetings in developing countries.
Acknowledging concerns with the draft governing instrument, JAPAN and COLOMBIA , opposed reopening the document and requested the COP Presidency to conduct consultations.
Barbados, for the Alliance of Small Island States , stressed that “comfort and political accommodation should not drive the major players.” Algeria, for the African Group, expressed concern with the lack of translation of documents and the multiplicity of contact groups and sub-groups.
JAMAICA and MALAWI urged revisions to the GEF 92s Resource Allocation Framework.
The EU, with NORWAY, noted their willingness to engage in discussions on entry into force and expressed concern with those taking a “narrow view of the mandate.” The EU said leaving these issues for the COP/MOP would not ensure enough time for these discussions.
Responding to ZIMBABWE, IRAN noted that its proposed compensation mechanism is designed to compensate countries that incur losses due to polices and measures stipulated by the AGBM legal instrument and does not provide funds for countries that incur damages resulting directly from climate change.
Norway stressed consideration of LULUCF issues and bunker fuels, and the Republic of Korea drew attention to the important role of technology.
Maintaining that the Kyoto Protocol works, BOLIVIA presented figures demonstrating that the EU, Japan and other countries reduced their emissions between 1990 and 2010.
 Argentina, for the G-77/ China, emphasized that new processes requiring further political development, as well as unresolved issues, should continue to be considered by the AWG-LCA.
On other LULUCF issues, AUSTRALIA, opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and CANADA, proposed alternative text on recommending a COP and COP/MOP draft decision to exclude degradation and devegetation in the first commitment period.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Barbados, for AOSIS, and others, said that facilitating and matching mechanisms did not provide financing.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , noted that the Co-Chairs’ text does not reflect the existential challenge faced by vulnerable states.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the African Group, said it was clear there was no common vision at this point and noted a “u-turn” in the REDD-plus negotiations, urging that this “area of hope” should not be “deliberately undermined.” Lesotho, for LDCs, was concerned that only six negotiating days remained prior to Cancún, and there were “deliberate delaying tactics” from some parties.
On Friday, considering a revised title for the chapter, Germany, supported by Luxembourg, Hungary and Belgium, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed reverting to the original formulation, which references transformation rather than mitigation.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that the elements identified in Decision 1/CP.17 must be treated equally in the 2015 agreement, adding that the ADP Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper on elements for a draft negotiating text is e2 80 9cnot perfect, e2 80 9d but could be e2 80 9ca useful starting point.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a process to take forward technical issues, saying a “very comprehensive” decision on this will be needed in Doha.
The Philippines, supported by Mexico and Ghana, called for reflecting human rights, in particular the rights of indigenous peoples and women.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underlined the importance of current transparency arrangements for pre-2020 action, and welcomed progress on adaptation, technology, capacity building and gender.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, requested clarification on the status of Monday’s event and stressed the need to reflect in the report that the “vast majority” of parties support the establishment of a forum on response measures.
On composition of the executive committee, the US, Australia, Mexico, Belgium, Brazil, Argentina, and Sudan questioned the inclusion of external members.
The G-77/China’s revised chapeau on objectives received interest from AUSTRALIA, the EU and NORWAY, while they clarified that they had not had the opportunity to fully consider the text.
On additional activities during the second and subsequent commitment periods, the EU, NORWAY, TUVALU and MALAYSIA, opposed by JAPAN, said the COP should establish a list prior to the second commitment period.
India, for BASIC, said that the full elaboration of the ADP’s work plan will be possible only after the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP have concluded their work and that an outcome should reflect the historical responsibility of developed countries.
As a compromise, the UK, supported by Germany Denmark, WG II TSU, Norway and others, proposed a separate topic on risks and vulnerabilities before Topics 3  and 4 .
Mexico, for the EIG, welcomed potential early entry into force and urged parties to maintain the spirit of Paris to produce concrete results.
Norway, Germany, Denmark, New Zealand, Chile, Slovenia, the EU and Sweden supported the sentence as presented.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported a registry for nationally appropriate mitigation actions , without prejudicing how it would be institutionalized, and a robust MRV process.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G- 77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and frameworks for implementation.
On demonstrable progress, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraph recognizing the first national communication submitted under Article 7.2, stressing that the approach was too narrow.
On a paragraph acknowledging the support being provided to developing countries for the preparation of INDCs, and the need for such support to be further enhanced, the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed by the US, preferred e2 80 9csome developing countries.
The US and Switzerland requested clarification on the proposed study of the Secretariat.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, proposed exempting small-scale projects in LDCs from the additionality requirement.
 Bangladesh, for LDCs, emphasized adaptation, CDM, micro-finance and compensation for those impacted by climate change.
SAUDI ARABIA objected to the reference to the adoption of the operational strategy, but FRANCE stated that the phrase was essential.
SAINT LUCIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed the need for developed countries to increase their level of ambition and to take on targets during a second commitment period.
The NETHERLANDS and the US sought clarification on the proposed brochure and called for broad participation in the expert meeting.
In plenary on 10 December, Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by Colombia for AILAC, Republic of Korea for EIG, Ethiopia for the LDCs, Norway, the EU, Canada, New Zealand, Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, and Argentina urged “welcoming,” rather than “noting,” the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C in the draft conclusions .
CHINA, INDIA, SUDAN and SAUDI ARABIA proposed structured submissions on priority themes for consideration at the workshop.
Mali, for the African Group, called for agreement on addressing the impacts of climate change on agriculture.
The EU, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that the COP invite the IPCC to prepare guidelines for baselines.
The Solomon Islands suggested the SR also treat peatland degradation and fires, and Switzerland supported examining mountains.
AUSTRIA, on behalf of the EU, said the question of broadening commitments in the long term is necessary and unavoidable.
The EU, the G-77/China and Saudi Arabia welcomed the decision.
QATAR, TOGO, CUBA, THAILAND and UGANDA supported the G-77/China.
TUVALU, BRAZIL and MICRONESIA supported preserving the architecture of the Kyoto Protocol.
 AOSIS, with BANGLADESH, said that failure to mitigate emissions has resulted in the need to increase adaptation measures.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, opposed by Botswana, for the African Group, China, Brazil and the Philippines, reiterated support for establishing an expert group, highlighting the guiding role that such a body could play.
 GERMANY, with support from many countries and GREENPEACE, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed the development of a special report on renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies, and BELGIUM suggested inclusion of this issue on the agenda for IPCC-25.
Maldives, for LDCs, said the science and economics of climate change are now clear, leaving only the need for political will.
On capacity-building, NEPAL, for LDCs, stressed that institutional capacity-building is a priority need and called for the immediate implementation of the work programme under UNFCCC Article 6 .
The US and the EU suggested parties present their submissions on how to cluster this paragraph.
CUBA, for a number of developing countries, with BOLIVIA, IRAN and Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized that actions to address bunker fuels should be guided by the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and that any market mechanisms in these sectors contradicting this principle would increase costs and affect trade.
Belgium, supported by Luxembourg, Chile, Sudan, Maldives, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Norway, suggested the Bureau consider ways to fix the appropriate size of the different IPCC products, including SRs, noting length “inflation” over time.
Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that adaptation is critical for all developing countries and that funding must be new and additional to official development assistance , and country-driven rather than fund-driven.
Brazil said INDCs: should not be interpreted as “an expectation of legal terms”; opposed self-differentiation; and, with Sudan, for the African Group, requested making reference to equity.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NORWAY, the EU and Belize, for AOSIS, proposed structuring discussions around clusters, as in the technical paper.
SWITZERLAND, with SOUTH AFRICA, said it should be possible to call on outside experts.
NORWAY and the UK referred to the recent weather events in Europe as a sign of climate change.
During the closing plenary, the G-77/China called for further work on scientific, technical and methodological aspects of new gases, while the EU noted that substantial analysis has already been conducted and stated that resolving this issue quickly should be a priority.
On a preambular paragraph on strengthening and scaling up adaptation action, Sudan, for the African Group, supported by Egypt, suggested adding references to the elements of Decision 1/CP.17  and vulnerability of developing countries.
LUXEMBOURG urged a positive signal from the US.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, recommended a decision allowing SBSTA to continue methodological work after the COP.
On the COP/MOP, JAPAN, CANADA, the US and POLAND reiterated a preference for existing Article 6 provisions.
 The Contact Group discussing the physical location of the Permanent Secretariat met Thursday afternoon with the representatives of the four countries offering to host the Secretariat — Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Uruguay.
India requested that the body to hold the workshop be identified, while Australia said agreement was to bring back this item under a relevant agenda item, but not to identify the body at this COP.
Mexico, for the EIG, looked forward to considering the IPCC’s contribution to the global stocktake and assessing the Nairobi Work Programme.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, highlighted Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions  and supported the creation of a NAMA registry.
Bolivia, for ALBA, stressed that Durban had not affected the lack of political will by developed countries regarding mitigation commitments, but rather showed a trend to move away from those commitments that are unfulfilled.
Concerns from India and Sri Lanka regarding time periods for increased emissions were resolved by adding specific year ranges.
Swaziland, for the African Group, expressed support for national initiatives, but cautioned that they cannot replace international cooperation.
The G-77/China, opposed by Australia, the EU, Japan, and the US, requested that text referring to information sharing at side events be deleted.
 CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and MALAYSIA, urged Parties not to revisit definitions agreed on at COP-9.
AILAC and BANGLADESH emphasized building on the current MRV systems, with AILAC pointing to the rules under the Kyoto Protocol, taking into account diverse contexts and capacities, and suggesting MRV be used as a trigger for the compliance mechanism.
Zimbabwe, on behalf of the Africa Group, said Annex I Parties have failed to assume leadership in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and lack political will to do so.
Following the submission of EU and G-77/China proposals for inclusions to a draft COP decision, the Co-Chairs prepared a compilation text that parties then added to but did not negotiate.
Saudi Arabia, Iran, Kuwait, Indonesia, Algeria and Nigeria said that the issue had not been discussed thoroughly and wanted the proposal included in brackets.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the AOSIS had made an effort to reflect the BM and its sense of urgency.
Supported by Switzerland and others, the EU stressed that it is not possible for Annex I countries to set targets without first knowing the rules.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, rejected the suggestion that developing countries should participate in tasks assigned to developed country Parties.
SWITZERLAND and ARGENTINA supported discussion of the issue, while NICARAGUA expressed concerns with the CDM.
Australia, opposed by Samoa, said that a Party should not be able to raise questions with respect to another Party.
LIBERIA stressed the vulnerability of LDCs and outlined his country’s energy policy, which includes a low-emissions development path.
Norway and Singapore suggested that the International Maritime Organization  and the International Civil Aviation Organization  update the group on recent activities, while Saudi Arabia opposed.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA noted that some unresolved elements in Annex B amendment proposals, such as the use of “European Union” versus “European Community” are resolved by proposals in option B. SWITZERLAND called for the engagement of the AWG-KP Chair on this issue.
The G-77/CHINA reiterated its core positions, including: a prompt start to the CDM; the need for capacity building, particularly within LDCs and SIDS; the issues of supplementarity, baselines, additonality, monitoring, verification, and equity; adaptation funding; equal treatment of the CDM; and the right of the host developing country to be the sole judge of a project ef bf bds contribution to sustainable development.
 South Africa, for G77/CHINA, observed that most Annex I submissions refer to domestic mitigation.
SWITZERLAND, the US, and the EU called for a structure similar to that of the fifth review COP decision, with the US and the EU supporting consideration of highlighting some SCF recommendations.
On consequences applied by the facilitative branch, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, called for the deletion of text requiring that UNFCCC Article 4.3 , 4.4 , 4.5  and 4.7  be taken into account.
On the possibility of Annex B parties strengthening their QELROs during the second commitment period, the EU indicated willingness to explore the ambition mechanism proposed by the G-77/China.
Many, including Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, GUYANA, Panama, for the CfRN, INDIA, FIJI, INDONESIA, BRAZIL and CHINA, stressed that additional guidance on safeguards is premature.
Micronesia, for AOSIS, emphasized data collection and technologies for adaptation.
On Saturday evening, discussing a revised version of the text that replaced reference to “fossil fuel prices” with “energy prices,” Saudi Arabia suggested replacing “prices” with “policies and measures.” Norway, Co-Chair Skea and others noted that prices are not necessarily included in the literature as policies and measures.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, expressed concerns with proposals leading to offsets, emphasizing the need to avoid creating disincentives for economy-wide emission reductions.
The EU and the Federated States of Micronesia, opposed by Brazil, India and China, supported the inclusion and discussion of this issue.
GRENADA and SAUDI ARABIA asked how the second report from the consultants tasked with conducting the study had been dealt with, with GRENADA noting that the CDM EB did not endorse this second report.
South Africa said that it would be difficult to design appropriate institutional arrangements until there was common understanding of principles and functions underpinning a financial mechanism and, with Bangladesh and others, underscored direct access under COP guidance.
CANADA said the discussions would allow more effective use of scarce time and resources and, with the EU, said it would provide an opportunity for "mutual learning."
Belize, for AOSIS, called for a goal for climate finance that will keep temperature increase below 1.5 c2 b0C.
Qatar, Egypt and Algeria opposed new commitments and urged Parties to operationalize UNFCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9.
On a paragraph acknowledging the support being provided to developing countries for the preparation of INDCs, and the need for such support to be further enhanced, the African Group, opposed by the US, preferred “some developing countries.” The US proposed “continuing need.” The LDCs noted that some developing countries have not received any support and requested deleting “to be further enhanced.”
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, called for a clear set of modalities for the operationalization of the forum and work programme, including, inter alia: assigning specific tasks and activities for the rest of the year and creating an outline schedule for 2013 to address the specific needs and concerns of developing country parties.
Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands and France said that adding reference to financial flows to developing countries would be acceptable if its associated context is provided, noting the difference between global climate finance requirements and national climate financial flows.
COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA cautioned against a "pick-and-choose" approach under Article 3.4, under which Annex I Parties could account for additional activities that sequester carbon but ignore additional sources.
COLOMBIA and VENEZUELA recommended that CDM projects, inter alia, produce real emissions reductions and, with COSTA RICA, accord with host country wishes.
The US, supported by NEW ZEALAND, recommended involving practitioners.
The Arab Group and Brazil suggested the topics of workshops would emerge from the submissions.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for a more streamlined purpose, which AILAC said is to catalyze and enhance adaptation action.
The US, Belgium and Saudi Arabia suggested developing a recommendation on what to do if there is a perceived conflict of interest.
SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND said TEMs should focus on enhancing mitigation ambition of all parties.
In the contact group, China expressed disappointment with the GEF paper, and Ghana said the paper did not conform to the terms of reference given by the COP in decision 4/CP.13.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: balanced attention to adaptation and mitigation, including their linkages; no unilateral actions by developed countries; and provision of support.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the Group of 77 and China , proposed changing the title of the third contact group to “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements.” After informal consultations, parties agreed to the establishment of three contact groups on: “enhanced action on adaptation and its associated means of implementation,” “enhanced action on mitigation and its associated means of implementation,” and “delivering on technology and finance, including consideration of institutional arrangements.”
Belarus, Singapore and other developing countries noted concerns with avoiding double emissions accounting and tracking information.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, noted that the reference to adaptation measures had been omitted.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a meeting before Doha to advance the ADP’s work and avoiding lengthy discussion on the organization of work.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, expressed hope for progress on the CER registry’s transparency, double counting, and CDM loan schemes.
  In the sub-group on sectoral approaches, URUGUAY, supported by ARGENTINA, MEXICO and others, highlighted the agricultural sector’s mitigation potential.
Germany and Saudi Arabia said that outreach must use the exact language approved and agreed by the Panel.
 SAUDI ARABIA, on behalf of VENEZUELA, IRAN, KUWAIT, UAE, SYRIA, QATAR, JORDAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NIGERIA, OMAN, BAHRAIN, SUDAN and YEMEN, reported a lack of transparency throughout the Conference.
CHINA, with SOUTH AFRICA, said action under workstream 2 will be the foundation for the post-2020 agreement.
Egypt and Brazil stated that bunker fuel coverage must apply the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Australia, Canada and Japan opposed the deletion, arguing, inter alia, that broader issues of transparency and good governance were involved.
TRINDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, supported a ministerial segment.
She noted that Germany, Denmark and Austria accepted the largest shares of the reduction burden because they are convinced that combating climate change is important.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, supported micro-insurance schemes.
MICRONESIA underscored the need for expedited access, and SOUTH AFRICA said the level of funding to ensure the sustainability of the SCCF needs to be addressed.
The CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and CANADA noted the need for information and expertise sharing and a resource centre for copyright-free material.
At the opening meeting of the contact group on potential consequences, the African Group, supported by Bolivia, Venezuela, Algeria and Egypt, reiterated their statement made during the opening plenary that they would not accept scheduling of other contact group meetings under the AWG-KP until the group on Annex I emission reductions completes its work.
94 Stressing the scientific nature of the SPM, Japan, UK and others opposed alternative formulations.
SAMOA suggested incorporating a reference to environmental integrity in the general provisions and, with regard to the NEW ZEALAND proposal, said the post-verification approach, listed as a potential consequence of non-compliance, needed to remain intact and not be mixed with borrowing.
The EU worried that if access to CDM credits is made conditional on second commitment period targets, parties will be forced to create their own rules through bilateral deals, while New Zealand emphasized the role of the CDM in promoting sustainable development and technology transfer in non-Annex I countries.
PAKISTAN and EGYPT preferred e2 80 9clegal parity e2 80 9d between mitigation and adaptation.
The PHILIPPINES, speaking for the G-77/CHINA, outlined the proposal, aimed at integrating decisions that refer to the GEF 92s activities.
The US recalled a recent OPEC study indicating that joint action by OPEC members alone could be sufficient to counteract any possible impact of response measures on revenue flows.
CHINA, supported by BOLIVIA and Malawi, for the LDCs, cautioned against combining REDD-plus with NAMAs.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said broader participation can only be effective if developed countries demonstrate leadership.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the AFRICA GROUP, suggested a cap of 25-30%.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that parties had agreed on a two-track, party-driven, transparent negotiating process and were not ready to “rubber stamp text coming out of the blue.” Ecuador drew attention to “serious procedural problems,” highlighting lack of transparency and inclusiveness.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and CANADA underlined the CDM 92s role in advancing technology transfer to developing countries.
The US, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN queried a proposal by the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA to bracket reference to "other interested Parties."
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported progress on LULUCF, including on accounting rules and forest management baselines.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the framework should measure progress toward a global goal of 1.5 or 2 c2 b0C and promote participation of all countries.
Several delegates including BURKINA FASO, ARGENTINA, the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and KUWAIT noted that the text was available only in English and asked that it be made available in French and at least one other language before consideration.
SWITZERLAND, supported by NAURU, suggested placing the paragraph under dynamic elements.
France, for the EU, reaffirmed the EU’s emission target for 2020, urged a reaffirmation of multilateral will in Poznań, and highlighted linkages between climate change, biodiversity, poverty and inequality.
On the possible QELROs, LULUCF was included in the pledges by New Zealand and Norway, with New Zealand assuming no change in the current rules and Norway emphasizing the need for changes in the accounting rules.
Regarding the option for promoting the voluntary implementation of mitigation actions, including actions with near-term effects, several parties, including India and China, objected to its inclusion.
The Marshall Islands, speaking for AOSIS, stressed the need for Annex I Parties to take domestic action through P&amp;Ms, while Zimbabwe highlighted their impact on developing countries.
Tanzania requested clarity on the term “international cooperation.” Zambia said the UNFCCC process refers to “providing,” not “enabling” finance and technology.
Parties also proposed topics for the next in-session workshop, with Solomon Islands, for AOSIS, proposing a session on the effects of 1.5 c2 b0C of global warming.
On the role of the COP/MOP, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SAMOA, identified an overlap in the functions assigned to the COP/MOP, the EB and the compliance body.
The UK, opposed by China, proposed using a likelihood statement noting that the impacts are 93very likely.
During Friday morning’s session, Chair Zammit Cutajar noted that Colombia, with Costa Rica, had undertaken efforts with other parties to consolidate proposals in the text and reduce duplication, while maintaining all the ideas.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported submissions on the GST outlining areas of convergence and divergence.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed a formula for relevant sections: state the level of obligation or precision for developed and developing countries; provide flexibility for developing countries, such as “all countries willing to do so,” which Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported; and provide further flexibility for African countries, LDCs and SIDS.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for the AWG-LCA to ensure a fair outcome on adaptation financing.
India, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested that the term of the TEC be extended by a year.
The Netherlands, supported by Finland, called for adding explicit reference to local knowledge, while Switzerland preferred reference to local stakeholders.
CANADA and GERMANY noted the importance of electronic dissemination of information and encouraged further expansion.
The Netherlands, with Canada, favored applying the same approach to all Parties, including an incentive scheme.
INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA observed that the item had been deleted because there was no consensus on further discussion.
On the synthesis report of the information provided by countries participating in the National Economic, Environment and Development Study  for Climate Change Project, the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed disappointment that the benefits could not be extended.
Maldives, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , highlighted the need for Annex I emission reductions in the range of 25-40% below 1990 levels by 2020, and BANGLADESH called for deep cuts.
Supported by the Philippines, South Africa opposed taking a sectoral approach, emphasizing instead the need for taking a holistic approach and to understand how the outcome of Workstream 2 relates to Workstream 1.
Cuba, for ALBA, invited innovative approaches under Article 6.8 , cautioning against “reinventing” market-based approaches under this item.
SWITZERLAND, the US, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and NEW ZEALAND supported using the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft text as the basis for discussion.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by ECUADOR, BOLIVIA, MALAYSIA, ARGENTINA, IRAN and others, opposed adopting the agenda and stressed his earlier proposal to delete item 4 and amend item 3 to include “all elements of ” Decision 1/CP.17.
However, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said they are cumbersome and, with the EU, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, supported their revision.
Pakistan, the EU and Chair Pachauri supported the sentence as presented.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the text leaves differentiation to be resolved.
AUSTRALIA, the US, JAPAN, SWITZERLAND, and NEW ZEALAND expressed concern with this objection.
BARBADOS, supported by GRENADA and COSTA RICA, stressed that the text on adaptation should not address response measures, highlighting that “patients suffering from a common cold should receive a different kind of attention than those with a serious illness.”
SAUDI ARABIA, noting the number of substantive issues to be addressed, with QATAR, INDIA and CHINA, said that extra time would be “extremely useful.” AUSTRALIA proposed assessing the need for a second informal meeting after the first one.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, called on parties to fulfill the mandate of the BAP and to reject attempts to shift responsibility onto developing countries.
The EU, the US and others stressed the need to work efficiently and take into account existing agenda items and work streams on response measures.
The Like-minded Developing Countries  e2 80 94a coalition that includes many of these emerging economies, such China, India, and Saudi Arabia e2 80 94interpret this ambiguity by recalling the Convention’s bifurcated approach.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, called upon SBSTA to clarify methodological issues before substantive issues are discussed.
TUVALU, with NEW ZEALAND, Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and others, said greatest consideration should be paid to spillover effects on poorer countries.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for scientific studies on the implications for SIDS of temperatures at and above 2⁰C, which he said should be available before COP 14.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said transparency and comparability are seen as fundamental.
Belize, for AOSIS, called for a goal for climate finance that will keep temperature rise below 1.5 c2 b0C.
SAUDI ARABIA, ARGENTINA and PERU preferred reference to all developing countries.
The EU and Switzerland highlighted taxation measures and, with Australia, emissions trading.
She also said the meeting would help Trinidad and Tobago establish a new system for integrating socioeconomic information and mainstreaming adaptation into policies and planning activities.
CHINA, supported by VENEZUELA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, BRAZIL, NIGERIA and BAHRAIN, expressed sympathy for Tuvalu’s proposal, but opposed discussing such proposed Protocol amendments that “do not enhance the Protocol.” He said issues such as share of proceeds and compliance could be discussed further, and suggested that: proposals related to Protocol Article 3.9 be referred to the AWG-KP; and a “limited number” of other proposals be selected for discussion under this agenda item.
COP President Espinosa noted that the proposed protocols relate to issues that are being discussed under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and stressed the importance of working in Cancun towards a consolidated package of decisions “that is within our reach.” She proposed, and parties agreed, to establish a contact group chaired by Michael Zammit Cutajar  to focus on protocol proposals by Grenada, for AOSIS, Costa Rica and Tuvalu, being the three proposals for which such discussion space has been requested.
Belize, for AOSIS, called for technical papers for consideration at SBSTA 33, on the means and costs of limiting global temperature increase to under 1.5°C, and on the costs of failure to reach this goal.
AUSTRALIA supported a focus on implementation, and BANGLADESH, with Maldives, for the LDCs, urged hastened implementation.
NEW ZEALAND stressed the need to define the boundaries of a work plan and possible forum and, with CANADA and the US, said the current text is unbalanced.
Noting the importance of transparency, the G-77/CHINA, MEXICO and Malaysia, for the LMDCs, opposed by JAPAN, called for observers to be included.
VIET NAM and MEXICO called for including gender equality.
Sweden, on behalf of the EU, called for a binding agreement that incorporates the essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
The UK, supported by MAURITIUS, NORWAY, CANADA, MOROCCO and others, underscored the importance of accepting the 2006 Guidelines and adopting the Overview Chapter at this session.
The UK, on behalf of the EU, said she looked forward to the adoption of the Marrakesh Accords, supported adoption of a decision on the compliance regime, and identified the need for more work on the CDM and guidance on the Adaptation Fund.
The US, opposed by the UK, requested removing reference to 93anthropogenic 94 climate change, which was replaced by Co-Chair Parry 92s proposed language on  93future 94 climate change.
Colombia and the LDCs supported ex ante assessment and ex post review of climate finance.
 CANADA and the US called for realistic scenarios.
NIGERIA said the African Group supported the Chair\'s paper.
With the PHILIPPINES, the EIG also drew attention to interlinkages with ongoing work on the GCF and the need to strengthen these linkages.
Underscoring the importance and inclusion of human rights and gender, Colombia, for AILAC, lauded the Agreement for not only being applicable to all but also for belonging to all.
AILAC proposed a TEM on reviewing existing policy databases and, supported by Australia, said TEMs should focus on implementation.
Regarding the tourism sector, Nepal highlighted the promotion of ecotourism and Egypt emphasized the importance of a strong monitoring system.
The US, opposed by CHINA, AOSIS and PERU, supported a decision on Article 3.3 and 3.4 as a package at COP-6, arguing that this is critical for the success of the Protocol.
Chile and Tanzania noted that the proposed paragraph on regional aspects had come about due to gaps in the AR5 WGII report and preferred strengthening regional aspects of the AR.
The US, Switzerland and Argentina cautioned that outreach activities should not evolve into marketing mechanisms.
The US, supported by the EU and COLOMBIA, suggested a summary for policymakers.
On the contribution of international organizations to the process, the G-77/CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA urged specific reference to OPEC.
SOUTH AFRICA said that, while INDCs are nationally determined, their scope should be determined internationally, and, with BRAZIL and others, that they should include mitigation, adaptation and MOI.
With the EU and Norway, Switzerland emphasized that the Cancun Agreements provide a common understanding on the establishment of a second commitment period.
UGANDA and COLOMBIA preferred to utilize the Convention’s principles.
NORWAY, supported by the US, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, JAPAN, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and the EU, and opposed by INDIA, MALAYSIA, CHINA, called for the deletion of text initiating a process to aggregate GEF funding requirements for the UNFCCC, as well as a request to the Secretariat to produce a paper for SBI-18 outlining procedures for joint determination of necessary and available funding for UNFCCC implementation.
China, with Brazil and Saudi Arabia, opposed a e2 80 9cmitigation-centric e2 80 9d approach.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that the outcome should not direct parties to raise ambition beyond existing NDCs, noting that many had pledged increased ambition conditional on provision of adequate finance and support.
Mexico, for the EIG, described the Durban package as a turning point in the climate negotiations, noting that substantive work must start in the next session on both work streams to increase mitigation ambition and adopt a legal instrument under the Convention that is applicable to all parties.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of building a common understanding on ways to make progress, and of best available science to address climate change and its impacts.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, appreciating the efforts made by Germany, suggested adding in paragraph VII on requests to the Secretariat: "Taking into account the views expressed by the Parties and the paper submitted by the G-77 and China."
 China, with the Bahamas and Saudi Arabia, said a sentence comparing temperature changes in Greenland with the temperatures and the 4-6 meter sea level change from 125,000 years ago was repetitive with text approved in the paleoclimate section.
On a paragraph inviting relevant international and intergovernmental organizations to report on their activities to SB-17, delegates compromised by accepting the EU 92s preference for reference to the IPCC, while at the same time accommodating the G-77/ CHINA 92s desire to refer to P&amp;Ms "in Annex I Parties" in another part of the text.
Discussing the revised outline on Friday, Germany, Luxembourg, France, the UK, Estonia, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Sweden, the EU and others, opposed by Saudi Arabia, objected to deleting reference to the global stocktake.
The US further stressed that: financial contributions will depend on what is deliverable; and a successful and ambitious agreement applicable to all requires flexibility, fairness and transparency to allow accountability for “collective adequacy.” SWITZERLAND invited parties to apply the Convention principles in a manner that “empowers us to do more and not as an excuse to do nothing.” The RUSSIAN FEDERATION stressed that decision 1/CP.17 clearly recognizes that climate change has to be “urgently addressed by all parties.” BOLIVIA emphasized that mitigation has to be undertaken in conjunction with poverty eradication and sustainable development.
INDIA, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and others, stated that the focus of this contact group should be on aggregate and individual reduction targets for Annex I parties, and that the AWG-LCA should consider reduction targets of Annex I countries that are not Protocol parties.
After TUVALU, the US, the EU, VENEZUELA, CUBA and COLOMBIA expressed general support for using the compilation text with bridging proposals in line with the LMDCs’ proposal, parties began indicating key elements of concern.
A contact group was supported by Bolivia, for the  G-77/CHINA, and opposed by AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, the EU and NORWAY.
The Russian Federation, supported by Saudi Arabia and the US, expressed concern that including reference to the global stocktake in this chapter would imply an obligation for the IPCC to analyze the level of adaptation and presented alternative text.
On a sentence listing examples of   involving multiple actors, Bolivia, with Nicaragua, requested deleting e2 80 9cpayments for ecosystem services, e2 80 9d noting that it is only one of the many possible functions that ecosystems serve.
The EU, BRAZIL, INDIA, CHINA and SAMOA noted that such modifications implied significant work at this late stage of the meeting and said it risked undermining or prejudging the work of SBSTA.
SWITZERLAND, CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA opposed a short-term quantitative goal in the post-2020 period.
 South Africa, for the G-77/China, emphasized that consideration of indicative ranges for Annex I emission reductions has not been finalized and looked forward to finalizing these discussions when returning to this agenda item at AWG 5.
India, the EU and Iceland underlined the need to enhance regional capacity.
On operationalization, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred using the Compliance Committee to address implementation of Protocol Article 3.14  and to facilitate compliance under Protocol Article 2.3 .
Describing Lima as a decisive moment for the future of the multilateral regime on climate change, Chile, for AILAC, called for transparent, inclusive and productive negotiations, and urged countries to contribute to the GCF.
CANADA, the US, the EU and SWITZERLAND supported the concept whereby the system applies to all commitments.
The PHILIPPINES, the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and ARGENTINA reiterated that the question of mandating the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement is procedural.
The EU stressed the need to be able to build on the ideas identified during the workshops, and INDIA called for a fresh approach.
TUVALU, on behalf of AOSIS, questioned the status of the new text, noting that some submissions had not been incorporated.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA called for a procedural outcome.
This was opposed by Ireland, Germany, Spain, Norway and the UK, who noted this would give the issue of blue carbon too much prominence, and instead proposed a consideration of blue carbon in the guidance for authors.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and BOLIVIA, said clarifying the mandate of the legal matters group was necessary in order to continue discussions.
During the deliberations, the EU and JUSCANZ members reiterated their respective positions on the timing and nature of further activities on P&amp;Ms.
The G-77/CHINA, the EU and the LMDCs stressed the need for a draft decision on workstream 2.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, looked forward to the in-session roundtable and the opportunity for submissions on mitigation and the transparency framework.
She agreed to take the lead on informal consultations with Brazil and the EU, to look for ways to resolve the issue.
Addressing Peru’s and others concerns that the IPCC would risk criticism again if, for whatever reason, the Panel was not able to deliver on time, the Netherlands offered to provide an explanation to the public if the Panel does not meet its deadline.
FRANCE supported the EU and emphasized the need not to delay until the end of the process to embark upon negotiations.
On the scope of MRV, Argentina, with Tuvalu, for the LDCs, cautioned against bias towards mitigation.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need for predictable funding and the provision of agreed full costs for the preparation of non-Annex I national communications.
Nauru, for AOSIS, highlighted that policy decisions should be guided by science, and success will only be reached by working together.
Several countries, opposed by AUSTRALIA and the US, also requested attribution of proposals.
Japan and others stressed the need for a legal framework for commitments by Protocol non-parties, including the US.
VENEZUELA said the US amendments would reduce its reluctance regarding Option C. URUGUAY said the US amendments sought sustainable development.
Noting the need to speed up work, NEW ZEALAND, supported by CANADA, called on parties to avoid spending too much time “fine-tuning wording and headings” and, with the Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed discussing the preamble at a later stage.
Australia urged every effort be made to ensure coherence and consistency between the AWGs, while South Africa noted that the two groups meet at the same time and place at every session, meaning that parties have an understanding of what is going on in each group and a formal link is therefore unnecessary.
 On definitions and modalities for including LULUCF under the CDM, BRAZIL, for the G-77/ CHINA, stressed that the outcome of the Orvieto workshop held in April, which detailed draft terms of reference  and agenda for work, served as a basis for negotiation only.
Regarding the draft decision, the EU, JAPAN and NORWAY questioned the need for text in the decision on principles.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, outlined tasks for Lima, including: progressing on the elements for a negotiating text; setting a clear direction for further work in 2015; and providing guidance that will help countries prepare clear and transparent contributions to post-2020 action.
Saudi Arabia, Iran, Jordan and Brazil emphasized a particular focus on desertification and land degradation.
 Key leaders met from 14-15 November 2009, in Singapore, at the 17th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting.
Australia and the UK said the fund should be an independent fund and should not access the IPCC Trust Fund.
The EU and Canada suggested this section applies to both Annex I parties and other countries wishing to take binding QELROs.
Parties agreed to this approach, taking into account the suggestions by the Russian Federation and Pakistan.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted fast-track financial support through the REDD+ interim partnership and, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, Australia, Ecuador and others, identified the need for public and private funding.
CHINA, with the US, expressed preference for a single worldwide accreditation body.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the EU, noted that the proposal establishes a framework for a programme of work, and that the programme itself and its detailed activities could be adopted at a later stage.
Noting that the SPA projects are designed to 93show how adaptation planning and assessment can be practically translated into projects that will provide real benefits, 94 she summarized SPA projects in process in Kiribati, Colombia, the Caribbean, and Africa.
OTHER PRESS BRIEFINGS:The G-77/China, the European Community , Japan, the US and Canada were among those giving press briefings.
NORWAY, the US, JAPAN and SAINT LUCIA expressed their disappointment that the contact group was unable to agree to a decision on this item.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, called for strengthening developed country commitments through the establishment of policies and measures and QELROs within specified time frames.
New Zealand, Canada, and the Russian Federation said INDCs should address mitigation only, with Switzerland and the US arguing that including adaptation in the INDCs would delay their submission.
Tanzania, supported by Mexico, suggested that subnational entities and local authorities act through their national governments.
The US described a proposed conflict of interest policy as a “conceptual misapplication.” Saudi Arabia stressed the need to include social and economic interests in the process.
The headline statement of the final draft that governments discussed on Friday initially referred to the gap between current nationally determined contributions  and a 1.5 c2 b0C target, but Saudi Arabia, supported by Egypt, opposed the reference to NDCs, arguing that NDCs were outside the mandate and agreed outline for SR15.
Brazil, Argentina, India, Cuba, Venezuela and China expressed support for continuing discussions at SBSTA 38 while the US, with Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Russia, the EU and Colombia, supported finding common ground in Doha, especially on MRV.
The US, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the EU, CANADA, NORWAY, JAPAN and AOSIS voiced concern that the text was not balanced and asked that their objection be noted on the record.
The US, supported by Switzerland, noted that:
Parties generally agreed on limiting evening and night meetings, although there was some disagreement on how late meetings should generally go, with AUSTRALIA, the US, and the G-77/CHINA preferring a 6:00 pm deadline except in extreme cases.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed this strategy, stating that some of the items enumerated in Annex II are beyond the group’s mandate, as they would require amendments to the Kyoto Protocol.
Chile, for AILAC, suggested sub-issues under market use could be “shuffled” at a later stage.
Further sessions were held in June 2008 in Bonn, Germany and in August 2008 in Accra, Ghana.
On the transfer of technology under the CDM, NORWAY, supported by JAPAN, proposed amendments whereby furthering CDM project activities should, as appropriate, lead to the transfer of sound technology and knowledge in addition to that required under UNFCCC Article 4.7  and Protocol Article 10 .
Uganda, New Zealand, Algeria, Peru and others recommended increasing consideration of adaptation in the work of WGII and WGIII.
The EU, supported by CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and others, emphasized that JI should start immediately and that lessons from the CDM should be used as much as possible, including accreditation of DOEs for JI.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, supported by GUATEMALA, objected to SBSTA Chair Konaté’s proposal to close the agenda item.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the importance of discussing spillover effects.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by others, drew attention to contentious elements, including technical assessments of non-Annex I communications contained in the EU proposal.
 Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of funding for non-Annex I national communications and continuing the Consultative Group of Experts on Non-Annex I National Communications .
Cuba, for ALBA, urged for adequate completion of the work of the AWG-LCA and highlighted support for the Bali Roadmap.
Egypt, India, Namibia and the LDCs said the Fund should have full juridical personality to ensure direct access.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, stressed that the matrices should only be used to help negotiations rather than eliminate proposals.
Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored that the process is party-driven and called for increased efforts to rebuild trust and foster a spirit of cooperation through frank and inclusive consultations.
Honduras, Saudi Arabia and Hungary argued against inclusion of nuclear power in the CDM.
CUBA, with BURKINA FASO, the G-77/CHINA and TUVALU, said the implementation of the guidelines will require additional financial resources and capacity building, and, with the EU, emphasized the need to focus on vulnerability and adaptation, and greenhouse gas inventories.
VENEZUELA and IRAN suggested including historic responsibility for concentration of greenhouse gases.
Opposing this proposal, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION noted the different status of the information contained in the document and the mathematical calculation provided by the Secretariat.
UKRAINE and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION registered disappointment with the lack of adequate time to discuss sub-items 11  and  on Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8, and clarification of Section G  of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, supported by CANADA, AUSTRALIA, and JAPAN, emphasized that work on response measures should not hamper effective mitigation efforts.
Norway emphasized that the EU and Norway have been implementing the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol since 1 January 2013, and invited other countries to proceed to ratification.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said enhanced action on adaptation should deal first with current, then anticipated, climate change impacts.
On the strategic plan, Germany, the UK, the US, Tanzania and others underlined that the two SRs, one on oceans and cryosphere, and the other on climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and GHG fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems should not be approved in parallel at the same meeting.
On a paragraph on welcoming the further elaboration of elements for a draft negotiating text in response to previous COP decisions, the LDCs, opposed by the US, AUSTRALIA and the EU, requested referencing Decision 2/CP.19  and, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and INDIA, further elaboration of elements e2 80 9cas included in annex I e2 80 9d to the decision.
During discussions, the US, Switzerland, Germany, the UK and Mali supported establishing the sub-committee.
UK Minister Beckett introduced and the COP adopted a resolution expressing gratitude to the Government of India .
Youssef Nassef, UNFCCC, welcomed participants and expressed appreciation to the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for hosting the meeting.
Honduras, for SICA, said: adaptation is the priority for the majority of developing countries, in particular for the most vulnerable ones; the ADP outcome must be based on the Convention’s provisions and principles, including equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
With BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, PAKISTAN and AOSIS, he called for the timely disbursement of financial resources, and for holding regional and subregional workshops on the guidelines for the second national communications.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, he said another report could address the effects of various emissions limitation proposals, including the AOSIS draft protocol, assessing the technical feasibility and range of cost for each proposal.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , urged meaningful progress on adaptation and on the Consultative Group of Experts  on non-Annex I communications.
On policies and measures, the EU and ARGENTINA worked on crafting a compromise based on the second option on the careful design of policies and measures.
On lessons from other areas of work under the Convention, Peru, for AILAC, highlighted REDD+ and noted that REDD+ guidelines will not be superseded by modalities, procedures and guidelines of the transparency framework.
The EIG suggested adding that the APA agrees to focus its further work in the upcoming session on substantive elements of the agreed working areas, which China opposed, saying that this could imply that the APA was not already working on substantive matters.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted that progress was made on some technical issues and underscored the need for more ambitious pledges for Annex I aggregate emission reductions in order to reach a 45% reduction below 1990 levels by 2020.
MEXICO, with PAPUA NEW GUINEA, supported by COLOMBIA, introduced the proposed amendment to Articles 7 and 18 of the Convention, underlining the need for clarity on how to proceed in case of lack of consensus.
 Referring to a sentence on adaptation experience accumulating across regions in the public and private sectors and within communities, Bolivia, supported by Chile and opposed by the EU, stressed the importance of adding reference to e2 80 9cindigenous and local knowledge systems and practices.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, called for the continuation of the forum on response measures and for further discussions of enhanced action on response measures.
Colombia, also speaking for Chile, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Panama and Uruguay, said market-based approaches have proven to, inter alia: encourage private sector investment; benefit local environments; and contribute to job creation.
SBI Chair Chruszczow invited delegates to address the agenda item proposed by the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Belarus regarding procedural and legal issues relating to decision-making by the COP and CMP.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for “effective and fair” participation of all parties and supported creating a contact group on this item at COP 22.
Mervi Kultamaa, Second Secretary to Finland 92s Embassy to the Philippines, reported on a bilateral support programme for small island developing States in the Caribbean.
The EU, US, Switzerland and Samoa said some elements in the annexes may need to be included in the main part of the text.
The meeting involved contributions from representatives of the International Institute for Sustainable Development, International Energy Agency, University College London and various other organizations, as well as government officials from Saudi Arabia, Australia, the EU and others.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the process launched under the Durban platform should result in a new protocol under the Convention that strengthens the rules-based and legally-binding regime.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU, opposed the proposal but accepted it in the spirit of compromise.
The Maldives and Mauritius called for technology transfer to address adaptation needs in SIDS.
 In the morning contact group, Co-Chair Djoghlaf reported on his informal consultations, highlighting streamlining proposals by Australia and Argentina, for the LMDCs.
Noting that the text was a good basis for negotiations, the EU and CANADA said several elements had not been included in the revised text.
The African Group and South Africa suggested reflecting in the preamble that all countries need adaptation actions, but then focusing on developing countries in the main text.
The EU recommended recording Tuvalu 92s concerns in the meeting 92s minutes instead of amending the draft conclusions.
Bolivia, for the G77/CHINA, stressed: best practices for strengthening institutional arrangements; the role of the LEG; linkages to the Technology Mechanism and Adaptation Committee; and linkages to the national level.
Nigeria, for the African Group, urged developed countries to fulfill existing commitments.
In contrast, Saudi Arabia and the Russian Federation called for accepting the outline of the SR as presented, noting that addressing a 1.5     c2 b0C warming had been a political decision by the UNFCCC, with Saudi Arabia warning against opening up the outline for discussion lest there be no agreement by the end of the week.
With Mali, Rwanda, Antigua and Barbuda and Timor-Leste, she opposed the co-financing requirement, which she said is particularly burdensome for LDCs.
EGYPT proposed an adaptation committee of experts and NEPAL suggested a climate research center in the Himalayas.
Parties agreed on compromise language on further steps, retaining reference to a "frame for action" that was supported by the EU and others, and deleting the notion of "in-depth" information-sharing as an element of this frame, as requested by the US.
The DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, also speaking for Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and the Republic of the Congo, highlighted the need to undertake the sustainable exploitation of forests and opposed reference to “avoiding conversion of forests.”
In particular, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia and some other developing countries, opposed by many other parties, made proposals that included: modifications to the implementation of REDD-plus activities; removal of references to markets; and exclusions of offset mechanisms.
Algeria, for the African Group, said two decades of negotiations had not produced the expected results, and developed countries were not meeting even the modest goals agreed in Kyoto.
The contact group reconvened in the evening to consider draft texts tabled by Venezuela, Russia and the US.
AOSIS supported the proposal and the EU indicated willingness to explore it.
  Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at slow progress in adopting conclusions on the scale of Annex I emission reduction targets.
 On CBDR and respective capabilities , Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that the Paris agreement should be under the Convention and its principles, including equity and CBDRRC.
The US, with TURKEY, called for a separate chapter on MRV.
NICARAGUA invited the GCF to reassess the membership of private banks to avoid “some embarrassing entries” and, with INDIA, highlighted insufficient funding of the GCF.
ARGENTINA expressed concern with the word “careful” and the EU noted that reference to “careful” aimed to convey that action should be consistent with Protocol article 2.3 .
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed text suggesting e2 80 9call e2 80 9d parties mobilize climate finance through a diversity of actions.
 Saudi Arabia and South Africa opposed reference to human security in the bullet point on psychological, cultural and socio-economic dimensions.
BHUTAN expressed concern that the LDC Fund will be inaccessible to most LDCs.
The EU, with BRAZIL, requested clarity on how the annexes would be used.
SWITZERLAND, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, supported adopting the guidelines at COP-5.
Japan and Argentina supported reference to other conventions and multilateral organizations, including the International Tropical Timber Organization  and the World Trade Organization .
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need to respect the Paris Agreement and urged parties to find landing zones.
Drawing attention to climatic disasters and threats to food security, Nicaragua, for SICA, stressed adaptation as a priority for the Group and highlighted the role of traditional knowledge in this regard.
The US, supported by Japan, Australia and Canada, introduced draft language for a decision on Joint Implementation  and an appendix on criteria.
MAURITIUS emphasized CDM for poverty alleviation and ETHIOPIA called for elaboration on this at COP-4.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported submissions on the GST and compliance.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, said the national adaptation plans process was distinct and separate from the NAPA process.
The EU, supported by the US and SWITZERLAND, expressed reservations with language on establishing the financial mechanism of the Convention.
The Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, supported by INDIA, called for ensuring that a share of proceeds from the flexibility mechanisms is used for adaptation.
Papua New Guinea, Guyana and Costa Rica objected to changing the name of the agenda item.
NORWAY supported CANADA and AUSTRALIA and underlined the importance of cost effective implementation.
The G-77/CHINA said several activities related to LDCs outlined in decision 2/CP.7  could be undertaken before completing NAPAs.
NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and the US highlighted the need to streamline the text on participation.
Canada, Australia, the UK and South Africa called use of the term e2 80 9csecular e2 80 9d inappropriate in this context, and Ireland suggested replacing the term with e2 80 9cunexpected, e2 80 9d which was accepted.
BRAZIL, with SAUDI ARABIA and BOLIVIA, highlighted the need to include other elements, such as adequacy of pledges in relation to historical responsibility and level of ambition in the mid- and long-term.
Peru, for AILAC, underscored the adoption of a gender plan as an important COP 23 deliverable.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with Grenada, for AOSIS, recommended that parties commence work on the items traditionally included in the SBSTA agenda while consulting on the proposed new items.
  Belize, for AOSIS, underlined the need to discuss risk assessment and management.
 : Colombia presented text resulting from “informal informals” on modalities for other developing countries that are not LDCs and on the provision of financial and technical support to those countries.
ARGENTINA and URUGUAY suggested that SBSTA focus on adaptation issues for agriculture, with ARGENTINA supporting the need to submit the HLPE’s report to the UNFCCC.
 EU, Canada, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, France, Germany, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, and the Netherlands presented updates on achieving their 2020 emissions reduction targets.
Chile, for AILAC, expressed willingness to comment on the text.
JAPAN and CANADA said both technical workshops and intersessional meetings should be held prior to COP-6.
On Friday, in the revised chapter outline, Germany, supported by Japan, requested that the bullet point on GHG removal techniques and spill-over effects include a consideration of impacts.
Regarding incremental costs, AOSIS and the G-77/CHINA highlighted challenges and underscored full costs.
UZBEKISTAN requested a COP decision to enable CACAM to receive financial support and its experts to be nominated and participate in expert groups.
The request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova  regarding their status under the UNFCCC was considered by SBI on Tuesday, 2 December.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, supported by Bangladesh, noted the need for predictability and sustainability of financing for the implementation of adaptation projects.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for ensuring coherence and balance in the Paris Agreement work programme.
The EU expressed concern that using multiple base years would require a Protocol amendment, as several provisions, including Protocol Articles 3.5 and 3.7, refer to “1990” rather than to “base year.” Australia noted that multiple base years present challenges in the calculation of AAUs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for discussions on the financial mechanism, particularly regarding issues concerning access to finance.
The US and NEW ZEALAND recommended narrowing the number of options for further action.
BULGARIA, on behalf of the CENTRAL GROUP 11, said the Group would undertake to identify spokespersons for the individual issues by Tuesday, and would comment on President Pronk ef bf bds informal note once members had studied the document.
On questions relating to linkages and context, NEW ZEALAND, the US, JAPAN and the EU advocated separating the context of the global stocktake from a question on increasing ambition.
On homework, ARGENTINA suggested considering a workshop, and with INDIA, called for submissions.
Mexico, with Chile, suggested adding black carbon to the Methodology Report.
 Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need for a workplan that would include in-session workshops, submissions and negotiations.
The Netherlands, supported by Norway, Switzerland, China, and Nicaragua, recommended regular progress reports.
Noting her country’s lapel pins made of dried coconut fronds are worn by members of the High-Ambition Coalition, a youth representative from the Marshall Islands said “if this is the story of islands it is a story of the world.” Tuvalu highlighted the leadership of his Prime Minister and said the Paris Agreement, in saving Tuvalu, will have saved the world.
However, Saudi Arabia, the US, and Australia expressed concerns about the proposed roundtable, with suggestions that this topic could be removed from future SBSTA agendas for four years.
The LDCs, with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP and BANGLADESH, emphasized that the special circumstances faced by African countries and the LDCs are referenced in the Convention and stressed the importance of reflecting this in the text.
Marshall Islands and AOSIS requested that consensus on political considerations be the focus of the Bonn sessions.
CHINA and MALAYSIA suggested postponing AIJ workshops until after COP-3 to avoid basing decisions on incomplete information.
  On emissions from fuel used for international aviation and maritime transport , CUBA, ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, CHINA, INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA, said work to address sectoral emissions under the IMO and ICAO should be guided by the principles of the UNFCCC.
A number of other countries, including CANADA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, also urged further work on this issue.
Switzerland, for the EIG, described this as “a good starting point” and informed that the Republic of Korea joined the submission.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that significant progress on LULUCF may facilitate progress on Annex I emission reductions and that issues on the flexibility mechanisms and methodologies, in turn, could be unlocked by movement in Annex I emission reductions.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for deep and ambitious emission reduction commitments by Annex I countries, and for ensuring that efforts under the Protocol do not impose constraints on the most vulnerable countries.
Micronesia, supported by the US, highlighted the value of initiatives outside the UNFCCC, such as those focused on HFCs, black carbon, methane and ground-level ozone.
Cambodia and others proposed simplifying the CDM procedures for LDCs.
Kuwait, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted overall assessments of NDCs and information on mobilization of support.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, warned against excluding any proposals made by members of the Group.
Regarding the need for a channel for communicating impacts and consequences of policies and measures in paragraph 14, New Zealand, supported by the EU and opposed by the G-77/China, identified national communications as the appropriate channel for such reporting.
MEXICO, AOSIS and TUVALU suggested considering regional TEMs.
On the circumstances and needs of LDCs, TANZANIA, BENIN and DJIBOUTI noted that they will be most affected by climate change and have the least capacity to cope.
The US said it could support this, but that a COW should not substitute for Japan 92s proposal for a facilitator.
Nigeria, Tanzania and Zambia warned against overreliance on the private sector.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for linking technology to the effective implementation of developing country INDCs.
Over 50 participants attended, including country representatives from small island states, experts from various UN and regional organizations, an environmental NGO representative and special invitees from the Philippines, Mauritania, the US, the UK, Australia, Norway, New Zealand and Switzerland.
TUVALU, opposed by CHINA and the US, suggested not referring to the need to progress on all items in a “balanced” manner, noting that some issues can be dealt with quickly.
AUSTRALIA and the EU supported extending flexibility to the LDCs and SIDS.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND welcomed work on a technical paper on mitigation in the agriculture sector, and THAILAND said the paper should also consider food security.
Parties then turned to the guidelines for review under Article 8, beginning with a textual proposal by the EU, Japan and Australia for the COP/MOP decision, deciding to start the annual review in the year following the submission of the report.
Kenya, for the G-77/China, suggested re-organizing the document under sub-headings, and circulated proposed changes and additions.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, highlighted the importance of a second commitment period that is ambitious in terms of emission reductions and that begins on 1 January 2013.
France, supported by Belgium, asked for reinserting a description of coal use in 1.5 c2 b0C pathways, which had been deleted from Section C in a previous draft of the SPM.
The COP convened presidency consultations co-facilitated by David Paul, Minister of Environment and Minister-in-Assistance to the President, Marshall Islands, and Carole Dieschbourg, Minister of Environment, Luxembourg.
The US and CANADA emphasized concerns with quantitative caps.
CHINA reiterated the G-77/China’s preference for a gas-by-gas approach.
China, Brazil, Pakistan, Malaysia, for the LMDCs, Sudan, for the African Group, South Africa, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Iran, Nigeria and Cuba called for deletion of reference to “other parties in a position to do so.” New Zealand and Japan supported the paragraph, opposing its amendment.
TUVALU noted the negative impacts of some biofuels, and GAMBIA drew attention to the current food crisis.
Panama, for CfRN, highlighted REDD+ as one of the key mechanisms to fight climate change, and, with Maldives, for AOSIS, and Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for designing the market-based mechanism under the Paris Agreement to ensure environmental integrity.
The US and Japan asked about the budgetary implications of these activities, with the US suggesting deleting reference to co-sponsored workshops for this reason.
With ECUADOR, FINLAND, the CARICOM States, THE GAMBIA, VENEZUELA, CHINA, ECUADOR, BENIN, TANZANIA and UGANDA, he highlighted the need for additional financial support, sustained transfer of information and technology, capacity building and institutional strengthening.
After a point of order from the LDCs, which noted that an “L” document cannot be issued without the consent of the contact group and that not all parties had been consulted on the three options, and a proposal from the African Group, the APA agreed to only discuss the first option put forward in the text.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, changed the second to last bullet in Appendix I on providing recommendations to the COP on responses to the review of the adequacy of commitments and their implementation.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for discussions in Panama to lay the basis for a balanced and legally-binding outcome in Durban that delivers on the mandates in the Cancun Agreements.
Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that the COP Bureau “formulation” was used to form the legal and linguistic review group, excluding the LDCs.
GHANA, IRAN and SINGAPORE said there was no need to include the other subsidiary bodies.
BRAZIL, with THAILAND, LIBERIA and BANGLADESH, called for a quick and simple establishment of REDD.
Switzerland, supported by the US, asked that the recruitment processes conform to the rules and legal frameworks of host countries and institutions.
Uganda and Malaysia felt that the relationship between the GEF Council and the COP requires further work and evaluation.
El Salvador, for SICA, called for direct contributions to the Adaptation Fund from all the flexibility mechanisms
In the revised outline, Japan, opposed by Saudi Arabia, requested inclusion of trade-offs as well as adaptation and mitigation co-benefits.
MALI endorsed the comments of Senegal and asked if the rules of procedure can be indefinitely extended.
New Zealand, supported by the UK, the US, Norway, and Switzerland, objected, noting that: such a statement was beyond the scope of the Refinement; the Panel did not yet know whether such a statement would prove to be true; and the 2019 Refinement was meant for inventory compilers and not policymakers.
On the decision that future work should take place through initiatives involving all Parties and should include the exchange of information on P&amp;Ms, SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by CANADA, emphasized that the information should relate to the P&amp;Ms of Annex I Parties.
The US, supported by CANADA and others, expressed concern with reopening of issues and proposed establishing spin-off groups to consider issues specifically mandated by COP 17.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS and CHINA said that solutions do not lie with the private sector.
SWITZERLAND said that the existing information units of the Secretariat and UNEP should be used to further work under Article 6 and, with the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and IRAN, called upon the IPCC to provide reports in languages other than English.
A number of countries, including BELGIUM, DENMARK, FRANCE and GERMANY, supported the inclusion of some sort of reference to risks.
Germany, Japan, Mexico, Austria and others opposed changing the WMO’s contribution from in-cash to in-kind, and with WGI Co-Chair Thomas Stocker , said that strengthening the scientific capacity of the Secretariat was not a priority.
Noting significant improvements since 2006, Australia and the US disagreed, welcoming the work programme proposed by the TFI Co-Chairs.
Maldives, for AOSIS, noted deep concern over the slow pace of progress thus far and underscored that his group “stands ready to do everything for this COP to be a success.”
AOSIS and JAPAN said all countries will need to be involved in mitigation.
Maldives, for LDCs, complained of funding delays for implementing NAPAs.
China, Bolivia and Venezuela called for considering the issue in plenary instead of in informal consultations.
SWITZERLAND submitted a written proposal on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP.
Saudi Arabia, with the Africa Group, suggested a cap of 25-30%.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, emphasized the importance of clarity and predictability in the negotiation process, and asked that the reflection note be updated with suggestions that are still missing.
Mali, for the G-77/CHINA, announced a submission, highlighting: improvement of access to the TEP by country experts; an accelerated implementation process; and MRV of support.
Responding to SOUTH AFRICA, the EU indicated an additional 2% emission reduction achievement, if LULUCF were to be considered in its 2020 pledge under the Convention.
Discussion on context was supported by AUSTRALIA, MEXICO, the EU, SOUTH AFRICA, Antigua and Barbuda, for AOSIS, India, for the G-77/CHINA, the US, BOLIVIA, SINGAPORE and CHILE.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for, inter alia: stricter targets; a comprehensive framework; short-, medium- and long-term adaptation programmes; and long-term finance.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed changing the title of the third contact group to “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements.” After informal consultations, parties agreed to the establishment of three contact groups on: “enhancing action on adaptation and associated means of implementation,” chaired by AWG-LCA Vice-Chair Cutajar; “enhancing action on mitigation and associated means of implementation,” chaired by AWG-LCA Chair Machado; and “delivering on technology and financing, including consideration of institutional arrangements,” also chaired by Machado.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US and JAPAN, suggested that the group draft a COP decision.
On fungibility and assigned amounts, she reported that India and the US were conducting consultations.
 THAILAND and INDIA noted the importance of endogenous capacity building in developing countries.
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela opposed discussing markets at this stage, with Bolivia calling for including non-market-based approaches.
 Belize, for AOSIS, called for urgent, practical and ambitious actions, including large reductions within the next 10-15 years by the largest historical emitters and by major emitting developing countries with assistance from developed countries.
She said IPCC-30 would be hosted by Turkey in 2009, and Indonesia would host IPCC-31 in late 2009 or 2010.
South Africa, for the African Group, urged scaling up finance for adaptation and equitable compensation for those adversely impacted by response measures, as well as support for economic diversification.
On monitoring and evaluation, AOSIS and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, underscored the need to avoid additional reporting burdens.
Argentina, supported by Morocco, Egypt, and others, requested that the paragraph emphasize the fact that climate observations are insufficient in many parts of the world.
On a paragraph on welcoming the further elaboration of elements for a draft negotiating text in response to previous COP decisions, the LDCs, opposed by the US, Australia and the EU, requested referencing Decision 2/CP.19  and, opposed by Saudi Arabia and India, further elaboration of elements “as included in Annex I” to the decision.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, suggested workshops on issues where parties’ views diverge and Malawi, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stated that these issues of divergence include the Convention principles, whether to prioritize mitigation or adaptation and means of implementation.
The G-77/China, New Zealand and Thailand stressed the need to determine the workshop 92s scope.
BRAZIL and INDIA cautioned against mixing adaptation and mitigation, noting that in some cases they might not be compatible.
Thailand and Belarus called for assistance from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  to create guidelines for natural disturbances and peatlands.
Under a proposal from the US and the EU, the first step would be to assess the extent to which managers and technicians in relevant sectors are aware of such technologies and processes, followed by the identification of sources and supplies.
The PHILIPPINES, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Venezuela, outlined benchmarks for success in Doha, including: Annex I parties to the Kyoto Protocol committing to ambitious QELROs to be provisionally applied from 1 January 2013; Annex I countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol taking on comparable and ambitions emission reduction commitments; and the Kyoto Protocol compliance mechanism applying in the second commitment period.
On modalities for treatment of CDM projects upon graduation of host parties, CHINA, BRAZIL, the PHILIPPINES and others supported no decision.
The UAE said the suggestion by the US would cause confusion, as similar cases taken through Article 19 and the compliance system would have differing results.
France, with Germany, Venezuela and Sweden, suggested including social structures and systems as either cross-cutting themes or in dedicated chapters in the reports by WGs II and III.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed the express inclusion of principles in the elements of a compliance framework as he said, the compliance process should ensure the implementation of the Protocol provisions rather than add new rules and principles.
Bolivia, supported by Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, said the SYR was e2 80 9ccompletely unbalanced, e2 80 9d with only three paragraphs on adaptation and four pages on mitigation.
The US, Canada and Belgium expressed concern regarding duplication of TGICA’s functions, such as with the WMO’s Global Framework for Climate Services, and recommended also discussing this issue further.
Saying that the Cancun Agreements contain essential building blocks required for building a future climate change regime, Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the agreed agenda reflects Decision 1/CP.16 .
The G-77/China and AOSIS advocated the creation of a committee to appraise, provide technical support and advice, and approve technical aspects of adaptation projects based on COP guidelines.
 Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, welcomed the extension of the LEG and requested parties support the LEG in its efforts to enhance the capacity of LDCs to implement NAPAs.
 Australia, with Sudan and others, called for enhancing capacities at the local level, and Saudi Arabia emphasized the need for an assistance mechanism.
Tuvalu noted the limited definition of financial mechanism under the Convention and, with Papua New Guinea and many others, preferred also referencing other economic incentives.
The US and G-77/CHINA questioned the need to link paragraph 11  and 13 , since they address two distinct issues: general reporting of the Committee\'s overall work and reporting of the outcomes of that work.
The US, supported by Australia, Japan, the EU, Norway, Colombia and Costa Rica, proposed also creating a separate sub-group to consider proposals relating to common elements of mitigation by all parties.
On Friday morning, 20 May, delegates discussed the provisional agenda  in detail, particularly additions proposed by Saudi Arabia on implementation of UNFCCC Article 4.8  and 4.9  , and one on capacity building proposed by the G-77/China.
INDIA and CHINA said that technology transfer was an important issue that was reflected in the "irrefutable intent" of the FCCC.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, emphasized that parties had agreed on a two-track, party-driven, transparent negotiating process and were not ready to “rubber stamp text coming out of the blue.” Ecuador drew attention to “serious procedural problems,” highlighting lack of transparency and inclusiveness.
Australia stressed the importance of the paragraph and supported, with the Philippines, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland, the second option, in which the COP would decide that all parties shall provide information on the reference point , time frames and/or periods for implementation, scope and coverage, expected level of effort, and how the party considers that its INDC is fair and equitable, ambitious and consistent with the objective of the Convention.
India presented on protectionist unilateral trade measures, saying that carbon footprint standards, including aviation in the EU ETS and the proposed American Clean Energy and Security Act, restrict market access by LDCs and other developing countries.
 Maldives, for the LDCs, and Grenada, for the Alliance of Small Island States , challenged a scenario projecting greenhouse gas concentrations of between 445-490 parts per million  and a change in global mean temperature above pre-industrial levels of between 2-2.4 b0C.
Swaziland, for the African Group, expressed hope for work under the ADP to provide an opportunity for a fair, multilateral, rules-based system in the context and principles of the Convention.
Panama, for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, with CAMEROON, underscored the importance to “launch” a REDD+ mechanism in the Paris agreement.
Proposals from the PHILIPPINES, NORWAY, Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , and Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , referenced human rights and gender equality.
The EU observed that the Marrakesh Accords took national circumstances into account, and TUVALU noted that the proposal did not account for trade in unclean energy.
 Following informal consultations early on Friday morning, Chair Pachauri, supported by China and the US, proposed deleting the sentence, explaining that no consensus seemed possible and that there was no need to refer to the figure in the section.
In opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, stressed the need for developed countries to put forward ambitious quantified emission reduction commitments under the AWG-KP and lamented that current pledges are insufficient.
Regarding the bracketed text, the G-77/CHINA and the MARSHALL ISLANDS preferred the first bracketed proposal.
Participants agreed to the proposal by China and Saudi Arabia.
The FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, SOUTH AFRICA and BRAZIL said that there was no need for adding new subcategories to sector/source categories.
China and Japan agreed to discuss this outstanding issue informally.
EGYPT, TANZANIA and GUATEMALA called for special attention to the most vulnerable countries.
AOSIS highlighted supported planning processes for LDCs and SIDS as the driver for funding and underscored improving the MRV process on additionality of funding.
AUSTRALIA, with BOLIVIA, highlighted unnecessary burdens such as observers being required to register significantly in advance without the ability to change names on delegations.
The EU and NORWAY supported inclusion of HFCs and PFCs.
In response to a suggestion by Switzerland, supported by France and China, Lynn noted that the IPCC webpage has links to other UN processes and products but said these will be made clearer.
On methodologies for estimation of greenhouse gas emissions, South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stated that it is not ready to consider adoption of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, but that a study on the implications of adopting the guidelines would be useful.
The US distributed amendments and Saudi Arabia also suggested several minor amendments.
Sweden, with the US, noted the need to take steps to mobilize resources alongside a careful management of costs.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stated preference for an omnibus decision in 2018.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BOLIVIA and CHINA, stated that discussions should first focus on principles.
Sweden, for the EU, identified the need to focus on items that could move parties towards a global, ambitious and comprehensive outcome in Copenhagen and suggested giving priority to the fourth review of the financial mechanism under the SBI.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, with many others, underscored the critical work of the SBI to achieve the objectives agreed in Paris.
The EU and NORWAY said there is no need for further submissions.
On a proposal by the G-77/China to delete Part III on the review of information on AA, the US said the guidelines should provide for review of information related to AA.
On institutional arrangements, the US, Canada, Japan and others saw no need for new institutional arrangements for adaptation.
Brazil, opposed by Australia, the Federated States of Micronesia and Switzerland, preferred no change in greenhouse gases and suggested that adding new gases that are reported but not accounted for may result in a “loophole.” Vice-Chair Dovland said there would be a placeholder in the text for amending Protocol Annex A and the Federated States of Micronesia suggested consideration of such language that does not require an amendment of Annex A. Japan highlighted environmental integrity, but said technical details require further clarification.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the AWG-KP’s mandate and stressed that a second commitment period must be established under the Kyoto Protocol beyond 2012 as the basis for comparable Annex I emission reduction commitments.
RUSSIA opposed Canada’s suggestion for an annual system of providing inventories, as it would be costly and difficult.
Spain, for the EU, acknowledged the need for appropriate financing for non-Annex I national communications and noted, with satisfaction, the GEF\'s fifth replenishment.
 ICELAND said the EU outline could be a point of departure.
In the bullet point on links between national and international finance, Saudi Arabia and the Maldives, opposed by Norway, Ireland and France, supported removing reference to “innovative financial mechanisms.”
South Africa, for the G-77/China, noted that significant progress on LULUCF may facilitate progress on Annex I emission reductions and that issues on the flexibility mechanisms and methodologies, in turn, could be unlocked by movement in Annex I emission reductions.
The US emphasized that guidelines and templates to support the design of national strategies and action plans on Convention Article 6 should be developed “according to national circumstance and context” and proposed deleting text on “identifying links with capacity-building and technology transfer,” which was supported by the G-77/CHINA and the EU.
Mexico, supported by the UK, cautioned that a larger group could compromise efficiency.
Chair Zammit Cutajar noted that the discussion had repeated issues that have been discussed before, such as the idea that “the form follows function.” He noted, however, that some interventions, such as the statement by the US, seemed to “link the form and function.” He also emphasized that parties continue to express diverging views on what is “legally-binding,” and said all these differences “make summing up difficult.” He noted that both Venezuela and the EU had “in their different ways” proposed to link the outcomes of the two negotiating tracks, and encouraged parties to speak to each other.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, NICARAGUA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed their regret that not all conclusions had been translated into all UN languages, but agreed to consider the items upon assurance it would not set a precedent.
Canada and Australia highlighted decision text that establishes a SBSTA work programme on a land-based approach.
Australia, supported by several others, highlighted ongoing discussions on financing under other bodies, and Ukraine noted that this issue is also being discussed under the AWG-KP.
The G-77/China, with Cuba, Yemen and Venezuela, stressed that additions to language agreed by the COP are not acceptable.
She said Argentina and Costa Rica have also begun preparing their second communications.
In the discussion, FRANCE enquired about transport development in China and India.
CANADA, with AUSTRALIA, called for indicators that take into account specific national circumstances.
 the Philippines, for the G-77/China, raised the operationalization of the Adaptation Fund as an issue on which it was seeking further discussion.
Saudi Arabia, with the Russian Federation and Venezuela, but opposed by Canada, Australia and New Zealand, supported text referencing Protocol Article 18  in the establishment of the compliance committee.
Mali, for the African Group, and Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed the importance of enhancing the Secretariat’s resources given pre-2020 work and preparations for the Paris Agreement’s implementation.
BOLIVIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, called for commitments based on an e2 80 9cindexed e2 80 9d global carbon budget divided among all parties according to historical responsibility, ecological footprint, state of development and capabilities.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and OMAN voiced strong objections, but the Chair noted many delegations could not accept the revised version.
The G-77/China, supported by some SIDS and others, supported establishing a group of experts, however the EU, US and others questioned the added value of such a group.
JAPAN and the EU highlighted coordination with the second Protocol review under Article 9.
Tuvalu, for LDCs, called for language on universal participation, human rights and rights of people with disabilities.
94 France, Austria, Belgium, UK, US, Germany, Canada and others opposed changing the confidence level from what had been assessed by the Lead Authors.
On the legal framework, Japan stressed that a “narrow amendment” to the Protocol is not an adequate basis for the post-2012 climate regime and said his country can only join a broader legal framework, which includes commitments by the US and major developing countries.
 On “agreement,” China, US and others noted the need to express that the agreement is in the published literature and not among experts.
On the role of the Executive Board in approving new methodologies and guidelines related to baselines, monitoring plans and project boundaries, CHINA, supported by BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed additional text suggesting the Board should review rather than approve new methodologies and guidelines, and should recommend these to the COP/MOP for approval.
Stocker emphasized that it was not possible to bring all GHGs into one coherent figure, and pointed to new text in the caption stating that e2 80 9cthe complex relationship between observations shown in panels - and the emissions in panel  is addressed in Section 1.2 and Topic 1. e2 80 9d Austria, supported by Sweden, proposed giving this statement more prominence and it was moved to the beginning of the caption.
NORWAY and MEXICO suggested promoting compliance for legally-binding obligations, and facilitating implementation of other provisions.
Representatives of Mexico, Ghana, Indonesia, Gabon, Brazil, Viet Nam, Chile and Ethiopia shared experiences in preparing INDCs, including on: the technical process; building institutional and policy foundations for INDC development; capacity building for INDC preparation and implementation; coordination and financial challenges; multi-stakeholder consultations for enhanced transparency and quality of information; short-lived climate pollutants in INDCs; and mainstreaming climate change in national development strategies.
KAZAKHSTAN said it intended to join FCCC Annex I. JAPAN, the US, AUSTRALIA and others welcomed the initiatives by Kazakhstan and Argentina.
COP President Hedegaard noted recent Convention ratifications by Iraq and Somalia, indicating that this brings the total number of parties to 194 and makes the UNFCCC “a truly universal agreement.”
PANAMA, supported by CHINA and INDIA, proposed an expert group on vulnerability, impacts and adaptation.
The headline statement on differences in regional climate characteristics under different warming scenarios was approved on Thursday following a suggestion from Trinidad and Tobago to refer to both drought “and precipitation deficit” in a list of projected differences in regional climate characteristics, and an editorial change to the footnote.
China, the EU and Saudi Arabia provided specific suggestions to improve the repackaging of the paragraph.
ZIMBABWE, for the AFRICA GROUP, and SAMOA, welcomed the focus on vulnerability and adaptation assessment.
The US called for the TEC to manage the agenda and proceedings of the TEMs and, with AOSIS, to provide meeting details three months in advance.
The NETHERLANDS said it will continue to implement its Protocol obligations in the absence of the Russian Federation 92s ratification.
Noting the divergence of views on how best to address loss and damage, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, called for engagement on this issue during the week.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over lack of progress on capacity building under the Convention and the Protocol, and drew attention to financial and technical constraints related to non-Annex I communications.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND questioned the propriety of allocating one full day to support, noting this is only one of the areas needing further discussion.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the group would work as hard and constructively as possible to conclude comprehensive and robust guidance for the Paris Agreement.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested an ad hoc working group that would process the technical aspects to produce an output for the political phase.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said parties should blame themselves for engaging in procedural discussions.
Australia and US asked for time to consult, while the EU preferred to discuss the points of divergence between the two drafts.
The G-77/China and the African Group strongly opposed any differentiation of parties beyond that of the Convention.
The EU, CANADA, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for a comprehensive global approach to these emissions.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, drew attention to gaps, noting the need to highlight the life cycle of funding, including inception, planning, implementation and review.
Switzerland, the EU, Saint Lucia, Fiji, and others supported these additions, and the paragraph was agreed as presented.
Maldives, on behalf of the LDCs, proposed the establishment of an institutional structure on adaptation to help ensure food, energy and water security and the protection of health and livelihoods.
  JAPAN and CANADA noted linkages between AWG-LCA and SBI discussions on technology transfer.
Acknowledging concerns with the draft governing instrument, Japan and Colombia , opposed reopening the document and requested the COP Presidency to conduct consultations.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, on behalf of the G77/CHINA, inquired about FCCC liaison arrangements in New York in addition to those in Geneva.
  The 11th BASIC Ministerial Meeting on Climate Change was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 12-13 July 2012 and attended by representatives from Brazil, South Africa, India and China .
India, Benin, Brazil, China and Colombia stressed the need for including existing institutions and networking to facilitate technology transfer.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: agreement on results-based objectives; conformity with Convention principles; and consideration of mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation.
On a question from Papua New Guinea about the feasibility of Brazil’s methods for other countries, Brazil stated that its satellite technology is being transferred freely to anyone who wants to use it, cautioning that the challenge is how to use the information obtained to change undesirable practices on the ground.
Argentina and New Zealand suggested that national circumstances, such as geographical remoteness, required consideration.
Regarding the options presented by the ATG-Finance, the US, South Africa, Saudi Arabia and others supported voluntary contributions, with Japan and others highlighting the value of in-kind contributions.
Angola, for the LDCs, expressed disappointment that the COP Bureau “formulation” was used to form the review group, excluding the LDCs.
Qatar and Saudi Arabia said methodologies should be available to assess policy measures for negative impacts, and Saudi Arabia added that a permanent forum would implement a detailed work programme, negotiate COP decisions, assign specific tasks to the SBSTA and SBI, review progress on implementation, and provide follow-up.
BARBADOS underscored that 99% of people dying from climate-related events live in developing countries, and, with the GAMBIA, urged Qatar and Saudi Arabia to revisit their position.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said assessment of technologies and methods for estimating the effects of measures have not been properly addressed.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, ICELAND and others also urged reviewing of rules on LULUCF and flexible mechanisms.
 The Chair introduced document A/AC.237/91/Add.1, which contains the text of proposals from the G-77 and China, the EU and the US.
INDIA, ZAMBIA and others urged the COP/MOP to provide a signal to the CDM market regarding the continuation of the CDM by establishing a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
CANADA and the US, opposed by PAKISTAN and INDIA, suggested considering preambular text at a later stage of negotiations.
SAUDI ARABIA and Malaysia, for the LIKE-MINDED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES , stressed that the section is not necessary, while Peru, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , Tuvalu, for the Least developed Countries , MEXICO, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, URUGUAY and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION emphasized the importance of the section for contextualizing the objective of the agreement.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that certain ideas must be clear in the text, including that developed countries must: minimize the consequences of response measures; cooperate in advancing further understanding of the consequences of response measures; exchange information; and take effective action to reduce negative consequences.
Expressing concern about work overloading, Mali, Netherlands, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, China, Brazil and Austria opposed the special report on climate trends and emerging science.
Bangladesh called for patented technology to be made freely available to LDCs and SIDS.
IRAN, for the G-77/CHINA, supported completion of work forwarded from COP-6 Part II, adding that this is not the right forum to raise the question of new or additional commitments by developing countries.
The African Group and India proposed deleting the cluster on plans and strategies, while Australia, the EU, New Zealand and Japan supported retaining it.
Brazil, Samoa and the EU suggested framing "financial penalty" as a separate option.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the need to consider all parties’ mitigation targets and actions.
NORWAY, on behalf of a group of countries and supported by the US, recalled a non-paper on emissions trading distributed by the group last week, and the package of four mechanisms agreed in Kyoto.
Brazil, supported by Peru, proposed deleting a statement on compensation for affected stakeholders.
Uganda, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more work on compliance and reporting, and encouraged parties to move to the upper range of their pledges.
KIRIBATI and FIJI stressed that adaptation measures should respond only to the adverse impacts of climate change, and not to the adverse impacts of mitigation measures.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed concern at the pace of the Article 6 discussions and welcomed progress on agriculture.
Ireland, for the EU, stressed the importance of decoupling economic growth and emissions, said renewables are a priority, and noted that technology transfer can occur on South-South and North-South bases.
AILAC and the Marshall Islands called for a legally binding protocol.
SENEGAL highlighted the importance of an attractive carbon price, and BURKINA FASO stated that sink projects are attractive only if the carbon price is at the level of at least US$ 20.
CANADA and NEW ZEALAND supported cumulative or aggregate targets.
 Regarding progress of the Task Group on Data and Scenario Support for Impact and Climate Assessment , New Zealand mentioned a TGICA regional meeting to be held in Nadi, Fiji, from 20-22 June 2007.
The G-77/CHINA and the US supported deletion of a paragraph noting the difficulty in distinguishing between natural and human-induced climate change.
France, on behalf of the EU, recommended continued use of draft guidelines for national communication, and collaboration between subsidiary bodies of the Convention and the IPCC on revisions of the guidelines.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, said this COP advanced the textual work of the Paris Agreement Work Programme and several deliverables for developing countries, including pre-2020 implementation and ambition, loss and damage, local communities and indigenous peoples platform, agriculture, gender action plan, and discussion of equity in the context of the Global Stocktake .
On the "analytical framework," the UK, AUSTRALIA, and the US raised a number of questions.
MALI, speaking for the LDCs, hoped that developing countries, and especially LDCs, would benefit from meaningful assistance.
Slovenia, supported by Cuba, called for an early decision on format in order to avoid uncertainty.
The AFRICAN GROUP, CANADA, ICELAND, SAUDI ARABIA and SWITZERLAND supported an eight-year commitment period.
Reports from Denmark and the Netherlands will be available soon.
CHINA and AOSIS called for COP-6 resolutions supporting capacity building in developing countries.
URUGUAY and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA described their initial communications and national efforts underway to limit GHGs.
On Principles, Australia, the Russian Federation, the US, Japan and New Zealand preferred not expressly providing for these in the text.
He praised the Canadian delegation, the  93wonderful 94 UNFCCC Secretariat team, Canada 92s Foreign Affairs Minister Pierre Pettigrew, former US President Bill Clinton, and former UNFCCC Executive Secretary Michael Zammit Cutajar, who he described as the  93hero of a new episode of climate diplomacy 94 for his work in the negotiations.
With Jordan, El Salvador and China, he said TEMs should focus on mitigation and adaption opportunities.
The UK and GHANA said scientific uncertainty should not be used as an excuse for inaction.
In the contact group, reacting to the report of the Adaptation Fund Board  , South Africa for the G-77/China, the EU, Solomon Islands for AOSIS, Switzerland for the EIG, and Malawi for the LDCs commended the work and role of the Adaptation Fund in supporting adaptation efforts in developing countries, with the G-77/China also appreciating the Fund’s “innovativeness” in the area of access modalities.
The EU, Denmark, Austria, Finland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Liechtenstein, the UK, Australia, Ireland, Switzerland, Italy, Portugal, Greece, Sweden and Monaco urged the Conference to produce a mandate for a protocol to be concluded by 1997.
Referring to a suggestion by Sudan, for the African Group, SWITZERLAND expressed reluctance to determine the precise structure of the new agreement at this point.
During discussions, issues were raised by Indonesia, Norway, Australia, the US, Switzerland, Tuvalu and the EU, including items on: the need for more in-depth work on the distinction between supported and unsupported NAMAs and the role of the Registry; the calculation of BAU scenarios and baselines; identifying the most useful international support for NAMAs; and financial constraints and conditionalities.
INDIA, ALGERIA and CHINA highlighted the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Colombia and Bolivia cautioned against a "pick-and-choose" approach under Article 3.4, under which Annex I Parties could account for additional activities that sequester carbon but ignore additional sources.
Mexico, for AILAC and the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, suggested that financial and technical support be made available to both countries and communities.
Grenada, for AOSIS, underscored the need to fulfill the mandate of a legally-binding outcome.
BANGLADESH, for the G-77/CHINA, noted that the G-77/China had discussed the issues internally and accepted these conclusions.
The US and JAPAN indicated that Convention Article 3.5 adequately addresses trade concerns.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said the text of the BM must be the starting point for future work, and added that the process will not include any new commitments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, proposed distinguishing content that needs to be included in a legal agreement from content that is more appropriate for a COP decision.
On review of information and possible decisions under Article 4.2  , AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU requested information on Turkey\'s approach to responsibilities.
The EU and CHINA said the COP should establish an MCP process.
Barbados, for AOSIS, called for keeping the text’s structure consistent with the BAP and suggested moving proposals relating to the text’s structure to a separate document.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for a decision on the host of the CTC based on, inter alia, capacity to respond to developing country needs.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, suggested the following benchmarks for a successful outcome in Doha: an ambitious second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol effective as of 1 January 2013; ambitious quantified emission limitation or reduction objectives  by Annex I parties; limited access to flexibility mechanisms by those Annex I parties that will not be undertaking commitments during the second commitment period; and addressing carry-over of surplus AAUs.
Noting that the text was unclear and that such a decision could be taken at any point in the future, the UK, opposed by Germany, the Netherlands, Ecuador and others, suggested deleting the paragraph.
AUSTRALIA emphasized that compliance only applies to individual obligations and, with SWITZERLAND, pointed to communications as an example.
During the general discussion, Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to focus on advancing the Convention’s implementation without altering its principles and provisions.
CANADA stressed substance, not timing, as the most important consideration and, with POLAND, said it is impractical for Parties to report on all climate change-related policies and measures.
With Canada and others, the G-77/China called for Barcelona to be “the end of the road” for LULUCF accounting discussions.
Canada, the US, EU, New Zealand, and Australia said that cross-cutting elements of mitigation and adaptation should be addressed and that a side event would be helpful in advancing knowledge on these elements.
The US, with SWITZERLAND and ARGENTINA, cautioned that outreach activities must not become marketing mechanisms, as that would extend beyond the IPCC ef bf bds role.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates stressed the need for building trust and for greater clarity on scaling up finance by 2020.
She proposed that an MCP should “provide advice to Parties on facilitating and promoting implementation.” The EU and EGYPT insisted on bracketing the US proposal.
On Tuesday morning, 13 October, Klaus Radunsky, Austria, described adaptation planning in his country, highlighting an action plan on climate change for the Alps, flood risk management, addressing needs at the subnational scale and adaptation planning within the European Union.
 Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, MALDIVES, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, ECUADOR, ZAMBIA, PAKISTAN, ARGENTINA and others, introduced a conference room paper  containing draft elements on climate finance under the ADP, requesting that it replace the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 non-paper  as the basis for discussion.
The EU, Switzerland and Australia supported the initial composition, and Switzerland and Australia said further consideration of the terms of reference was not necessary.
Highlighting the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities as well as Protocol Article 3.9 , Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to prioritize the AWG-KP’s work.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , stressed that COP 23 must advance progress on loss and damage, including establishing a five-year work programme, long-term support for the WIM as a standing agenda item and accelerating finance flows to small island developing states .
While the G-77/China supported this text, the EU, US and Japan preferred asking the GEF simply to “continue” providing financial support.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, supported by Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, and VENEZUELA, did not support the draft conclusion texts as a basis for discussion, proposing procedural conclusions that take note of the co-chairs’ informal notes and decide to continue discussions at SBSTA 48.
 : Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol as part of a balanced and comprehensive outcome for Durban, saying the Cancun Agreements should be fully operationalized.
AUSTRALIA asked to see disaggregated data for the EU “bubble.” AOSIS noted that 30% falls short of the level of ambition required.
On whether to consider sectors whose emissions can be attributed to a particular country, sectors where emissions cannot be attributed, or both, the EU and NORWAY supported considering both, while SAUDI ARABIA stated that sectors that go beyond national borders should not be addressed.
Botswana, Thailand, and Uruguay offered to host regional workshops.
Under Item 4 on National Communications from Parties included in Annex 1, the President reported that the United Republic of Tanzania and Qatar are to become signatories to the FCCC before the end of the Conference, and Israel will become a non-Annex I Party in August.
Argentina, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, called for ambition and a balance between mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
SAMOA stressed two features of the AOSIS diagram: avoidance of polarization between the facilitative and enforcement functions, since they overlap, and an eligibility committee responsible for the determination of mechanism eligibility.
CHINA, INDIA and KUWAIT also supported noting the sources of proposals as a means to trace the history of the proposals.
China, for BASIC, underlined that Doha must achieve a legally-binding and fully ratifiable second commitment period, and said developed countries that are not party to the Kyoto Protocol or do not intend to participate in the second commitment period should not have access to the CDM.
CANADA, with the US and JAPAN, emphasized that the Copenhagen workshop on P&amp;Ms fulfilled relevant BAPA requirements.
 DENMARK and POLAND expressed willingness to host a future COP and    COP/MOP.
The EU and CANADA stressed that developed countries are on track to reach the US$100 billion by 2020 finance goal.
The EU, with the US, emphasized the need to discuss the implementation of decision 5/CP.7 as a sub-item.
Many countries, including SOUTH AFRICA, KUWAIT, NIGERIA, SENEGAL, NAMIBIA, PERU, Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and others, expressed willingness to use the Chair’s text as the basis of work.
The EU, NORWAY, SAUDI ARABIA and NEW ZEALAND supported consideration of the item beyond SBSTA-17.
The EU stated that differentiation is already applied under the CDM, for instance, concerning the LDCs.
Regarding a sentence on the   for effective selection and implementation of adaptation options, Germany, supported by China and Saudi Arabia, called for adding language on the need to integrate adaptation into all development planning.
Bangladesh and Pakistan said the fund should help build capacity in developing countries.
KUWAIT and CHINA raised concerns about holding joint meetings.
 CHILE supported Germany’s proposed approach for a flat rate emissions reduction, noting it contained clear measures and was aimed at CO2 emissions without precluding other instruments.
The EU and JAPAN, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, reiterated their request to delete a sentence calling for information exchange on ways to minimize the adverse effects of response measures.
MOZAMBIQUE and PORTUGAL noted the importance of the draft decisions on LDCs.
Liechtenstein, for the EIG, highlighted the need for further progress on transforming pledges into quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives , commitment period length and the carryover of surplus AAUs.
France, for the European Union , said the fight against climate change could not wait for a recovery from the economic recession and stressed that the EU’s goals are clear even if internal debate is taking place on legislation to implement the target of a 20% reduction by 2020.
New Zealand and Australia preferred setting a common cycle, with Australia suggesting phased cycles linked to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  assessment cycles, including: ex ante and ex post MRV; and review of aggregate level.
Iran, for the LMDCs, Chile, for AILAC, CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and NEW ZEALAND stressed the link to countries’ capacity to implement their commitments.
Instead of entering negotiations on the draft decision, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CANADA, JAPAN and the EU, opposed by INDIA, BRAZIL, BARBADOS and CHINA, requested the option to provide further submissions on the operational priorities of the Fund.
NORWAY, with the EU, noted potential for further convergence in the text.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, called for Annex II countries to provide necessary resources for the CGE work programme.
SAUDI ARABIA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA, opposed by AOSIS, called for a reference to response measures.
 BOLIVIA and SOUTH AFRICA urged greater equilibrium between the rules relating to CDM and JI.
Barbados, for AOSIS, supported a simple and transparent approach, without substantial reporting requirements or conditional funding.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that there are strong links between the AWG tracks and that a broader perspective will enhance efficiency.
In support of her delegation 92s proposal, the EU, supported by JAPAN and the US, said, inter alia, that: capacity and infrastructure is enhanced after completion of initial national communications, facilitating the preparation of subsequent national communications; frequent submissions of national communications will result in more funds; and a longer time-frame will encourage inefficiency.
SAMOA and the US highlighted the need for an integrated approach to adaptation.
Uruguay, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the role of adaptation communications in: communicating needs, priorities and plans in catalyzing action and support; achieving parity with mitigation; and assisting developing countries in achieving the global goal on adaptation.
NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY and others expressed readiness to work based on the non-paper.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA stressed the need to complete the review in Poznań, while JAPAN, NORWAY and others supported continuing consideration of some issues beyond Poznań.
on behalf of AOSIS, and supported by Fiji, Mauritius, Micronesia, Papua New Guinea, Norway and the Republic of Korea, called for adoption of the AOSIS protocol.
The G-77/China stressed that sectoral approaches should not replace Annex I parties’ national targets, with New Zealand, Japan and others accepting that they should be complementary.
With the US and the UK, but opposed by CHILE and SAUDI ARABIA, she said the former task could be performed by the Secretariat.
The US, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that non-Annex I Parties should submit greenhouse gas inventories every two years.
On consequences of non-compliance, the G-77/CHINA expressed interest in the EU proposal on financial penalties linked to a compliance fund.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, with AOSIS, stated that a shared vision is composed of the four building blocks and highlighted proposals for a financial architecture and a multilateral technology fund.
This was opposed by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Ecuador, who opposed reference to the Paris Agreement, and by Saint Kitts and Nevis, the Marshall Islands, Belgium, Grenada, and France, who preferred the previous formulation with explicit reference to NDCs.
Algeria, on behalf of the G-77/China, encouraged Annex I parties to raise their level of ambition, and urged those parties who have not put forward QELROs to do so.
 The Secretariat said that the timing of funding is important and that the US and the G-77/China gave the same message.
 Expressing regret for the situation, the Gambia, for LDCs, supported by Guyana, for GRULAC, the EU, the US, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed that the COP Presidency preside over the ADP until matters concerning the election of its Bureau are resolved.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that all 15 EU members have completed their national communications, and that three have undergone in-depth reviews.
A request from countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova  on their status under the UNFCCC was forwarded to SB-19.
ZIMBABWE, SAMOA and JAMAICA supported a specific recommendation on insurance.
Indicating flexibility on period length, SWITZERLAND, with NORWAY, emphasized that all parties should communicate their commitments at the same time.
This paragraph was eventually accepted, as amended by the EU, with further minor amendments by the G-77/CHINA.
Yemen, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, India, Turkey, the EU and many others applauded the transparent and inclusive process that the Mexican Presidency had followed.
On the pre-sessional workshop, the EU and Canada were in favor of holding a forum where Parties could exchange their views on lessons learned from mitigation workshops and future steps to take under this agenda item.
GHANA said the challenges of climate change mitigation and adaptation present an additional burden to developing countries and with the CARICOM States, ICELAND, AUSTRALIA, the US, SAUDI ARABIA, NEW ZEALAND and the G-77/CHINA, called for elaboration of mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol.
Parties considered a textual proposal by the ADP Co-Chairs for paragraphs on a body to prepare for entry into force, and converged on using an existing body, specifically the ADP under a new name, by “importing” its governance and arrangements as proposed by Colombia, for the INDEPENDENT ALLIANCE OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN .
The UK, supported by Spain, proposed that focal points should be made aware of who is invited to facilitate the process of sending experts to meetings.
The G-77/CHINA, and VENEZUELA preferred "identifying" actions.
In the text, parties agreed to “take into account” the LULUCF principles of decision 16/CMP.1 instead of agreeing that the principles continue to apply, as preferred by the G-77/CHINA, SWITZERLAND and others.
Australia and Iceland questioned the implications of mid-term reviews on legal commitments and the impact on emissions trading systems.
On the preamble, the US, JAPAN and CANADA, opposed by the EU, SAUDI ARABIA and SAMOA, again urged deleting reference to specific UNFCCC and Protocol provisions.
Saudi Arabia expressed reservations regarding reference to “carbon budgets” and “the long-term temperature goal.” Following informal consultations, alternative text was proposed on “modeled emission pathways compatible with the Paris Agreement, including the long-term temperature goal, and higher warming levels, taking into account CO2, non-CO2 and SLCFs .” The UK requested that reference to carbon budgets be included in the guidance for authors.
India, supported by China, explained that MRV in developing countries only applies to mitigation actions that are internationally enabled, and Brazil stressed that it is based on national criteria.
CANADA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, said discussions on information, methods and tools for socioeconomic scenario-building should be included, while NEW ZEALAND suggested that the issue should be discussed with ef bf bdprojections ef bf bd matters.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for an Article 6.2  oversight body to allow for up-front reporting.
Samoa said it did not share all of the concerns expressed by Saudi Arabia.
Switzerland, for the EIG, inter alia, welcomed outcomes of the in-session workshop on gender-responsive climate policy and considered the multilateral assessment process as helpful to enhance understanding of parties e2 80 99 commitments; and regretted no progress was made on modalities of the CDM.
The EU, Liechtenstein, Japan, Monaco and Switzerland also stated they would not purchase surplus AAUs carried over from the first commitment period.
On recommending text of a protocol, another legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with the EU and TUVALU, proposed including reference to Convention Article 17  and applied rules of procedure, so that the six-month rule for introducing text can be adhered to.
South Africa, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA and CHINA , noted that increased pre-2020 ambition by developed countries, including full capitalization of the GCF, will build trust in the post-2020 process.
The two proposed additions to the agenda were: from Iran, for the LMDCs, on the acceleration of implementation of pre-2020 commitments and actions, and increasing pre-2020 ambition; and from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, supported by Mozambique, on a gateway to encourage, monitor, report, verify, and account for ambition of non-party organizations.
COSTA RICA read out a joint submission by Colombia, for AILAC, Australia, Canada, the EU, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, and Switzerland on the need for corresponding adjustments in connection with transfers of mitigation outcomes and emission reductions under Article 6.
Belgium, China, New Zealand and others highlighted human settlements as an important cross-cutting issue and stressed the involvement of all WGs.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, suggested working towards agreement on outstanding issues and, where no agreement is reached, to consider transferring issues to other Convention bodies  .
The EU and JAPAN stated that further discussion on technical aspects should only occur after the completion of IPCC ef bf bds work on good practice.
Panama, for COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS , highlighted REDD+ as a fundamental element of the 2015 agreement and called for a REDD+ window in the GCF.
She underscored that she does not support Tuvalu’s tactics of targeting countries, like Norway, that are providing leadership on this issue.
INDIA, INDONESIA and others underlined the need to relax IPRs.
BRAZIL emphasized that the G-77/China has a “strong view” on the country-ownership of NAMAs and that the process of recording and financing NAMAs should not have any bearing on the country-driven process of design and implementation.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS preferred to base work on the Co-Chairs 92 proposal.
The EU, CANADA, the US and AUSTRALIA supported holding it prior to COP-5 in order to better prepare for and participate more fully in that meeting.
During SBI 26, Australia pledged up to A$7.5 million to the Fund and New Zealand noted its recent contribution of NZ$1.8 million, replicating the same contribution in 2006.
In response to interventions from Belgium and China, Lynn said that the SROCC’s approval is expected to take place on the same day as the 2019 UN Climate Summit in New York, US, and that the report will be publicized during the Summit.
Samoa, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , said greenhouse gas concentrations must be stabilized well below 450 parts per million  and suggested the inclusion of new gases under the Protocol.
 CHINA said that the SBI should consider informal intersessional consultations to facilitate agreement on the programme budget “if feasible.” On the request for a programme budget, the EU proposed stating that “several delegations noted the proposed increase of the budget and expressed concerns that a full justification should be made before it is agreed.” In addition, the EU proposed a “detailed” programme budget and specific outputs from each programme.
 This breakout group was facilitated by Carlos Fuller, Belize, who was assisted by rapporteur Jasmine Gopaul, Trinidad and Tobago.
On adaptation challenges, CANADA highlighted: adopting an integrated and iterative approach; building capacity for adaptation and assessment; and, with the EU, improving information gathering and dissemination.
Others, including Australia, Japan and China, preferred addressing this issue through ICAO and IMO.
In  , following proposals by Saudi Arabia and Chile, the constraining factor of e2 80 9cweak governance and institutional arrangements e2 80 9d was changed to e2 80 9cchallenges in governance and institutional arrangements, e2 80 9d to keep the table in line with the SPM.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed changing the work modalities for the possible additional session.
Brazil, Bolivia and several others highlighted historical responsibility and the polluter pays principle.
MALAYSIA, the PHILIPPINES, ARGENTINA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO said that widest possible NGO participation should be sought and requested that the Secretariat provide financial resources to ensure participation of developing country NGOs.
UZBEKISTAN, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, sought clear definitions of core concepts.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, accepted the need to avoid duplicative work but highlighted the AWG 92s limited mandate and opposed any formal links to other post-2012 processes.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for focusing on parties willing to enter into a second Kyoto Protocol commitment period and exploring whether and how their conditionalities have or can be met.
Some countries, including JAPAN and the US, noted the urgent need for a decision on which anthropogenic activities should be included because it influences the ability of some countries to ratify and implement the Protocol.
  Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the importance of this issue, while AUSTRALIA, the EU and JAPAN stressed the need to avoid duplicating work under the SBSTA agenda item on Protocol Article 2.3 .
PAKISTAN and SOUTH AFRICA called for treating all elements of Decision 1/CP.17 e2 80 9cin a balanced manner.
SOUTH AFRICA emphasized that climate change financing should not be merely a reshaping of ODA, and PAKISTAN stressed that market mechanisms alone cannot fill the financing gap.
BHUTAN, supported by the US and CANADA, expressed support for a synthesis report for the workshops, while SAUDI ARABIA considered this premature.
MARSHALL ISLANDS, with MICRONESIA, noted that the programme does not deliver adaptation projects.
CHINA, Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the PHILIPPINES, SAUDI ARABIA and TUVALU sought a comprehensive arrangement for all the items in the table of “orphan issues.”
AUSTRALIA proposed a global agreement for each of these sectors and the EU called for global targets for international aviation and maritime emissions, set by the UNFCCC and implemented through the IMO and ICAO.
China, Iran, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Ecuador called for quantitative commitments and, with the pledge of US$100 billion per year by 2020 as a starting point, proposed a roadmap for scaling up finance post-2020.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, highlighted the Protocol as the most important legal instrument addressing climate change and called on Annex I countries to respect their legal commitment to a second commitment period.
South Africa reiterated the G-77/ China 92s support for mandatory consequences.
SWITZERLAND highlighted his country’s proposal for a uniform global levy of US$ 2 per tonne of CO2, except for LDCs.
CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US and AUSTRALIA endorsed the continuation of climate change research conducted by IGOs and national governments.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, rejected attempts to marginalize the Kyoto Protocol.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the US, suggested referring to promoting achievement of the FCCC 92s ultimate objective.
CHINA, supported by ITALY, the EU and FINLAND, said that promoting “implementation” was more appropriate than promoting “compliance" since an MCP’s function should be advisory.
Germany, the Maldives, the UK, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden, and Saudi Arabia urged the ATG-Finance to continue working with other UN organizations.
On REDD+, NORWAY and ECUADOR reported on key outstanding issues: financing; scope of a REDD+ mechanism; connection between the national and sub-national levels; and MRV of safeguards.
MALAYSIA and INDIA emphasized MOI in the context of equity and historical responsibility.
She highlighted that the format of the meeting had facilitated an informal exchange among both governments and NGOs, and thanked Trinidad and Tobago for their hospitality and the UNFCCC Secretariat for organizing the meeting.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, stressed the need to fully implement the LDC work programme, in particular, national adaptation programmes of action .
Syria supported having discussions on India’s proposals.
Australia and the US said discussions should focus on minimizing adverse impacts rather than on compensation.
Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay suggested a COP decision in 2018.
Many parties noted the dwindling of negotiating days before Paris, with Angola, for the LDCs, requesting that negotiations begin immediately, and the US, with EGYPT, suggesting adding days to the ADP e2 80 99s next session.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, called for the full implementation of NAPAs and the LDC work programme.
On the sub-item dealing with the consideration of the fifth compilation and synthesis of initial national communications, the G-77/China, opposed by the US, objected to a document tabled by the Secretariat on steps taken by non-Annex I Parties to reduce emissions.
Canada, Thailand, Cook Islands and Sri Lanka stressed the promotion of a culture of adaptive management.
Chair Pachauri proposed consultations between the US, Japan and the WG Co-Chairs.
Morocco, on behalf of the G-77/ China, appealed for a focus on adaptation, and emphasized the need to operationalize the Funds created under the Protocol and UNFCCC.
Canada, supported by Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Chile, Norway and the US, suggested that polar regions be treated in a standalone chapter.
 During the meeting, Spain, on behalf of the European Union, submitted an outline for a protocol or legal instrument.
India, supported by China, suggested this option should be based on, and under, the UNFCCC and not involve reinterpretation or amendment of the Convention, with China suggesting that “dynamic” interpretation of the principle may entail amendment.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said that the text to be prepared by the Chair contains all elements that will allow for a smooth transition to a second commitment period and successful conclusion of the AWG-KP in Doha.
Luis Herrera  reported consensus on replacing Czechoslovakia in Annex I with Slovakia and the Czech Republic and adding Croatia and Slovenia.
On Saturday, following contact group discussions, India and Norway proposed specifying that new and existing technologies and practices are technically proven “at various scales.”The UK suggested that their large-scale deployment “may be,” rather than “is,” limited by various constraints.
Praising the utility of the pre-sessional workshops, Argentina, for the G-77/China, requested the workshop reports also be submitted to the AWG-KP.
Norway, supported by France, the UK, Canada, Switzerland, and China, urged delegates to protect the integrity of the IPCC and use its Principles and Procedures covering a situation of no consensus.
ARGENTINA, with the PHILIPPINES and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed concern with the concept of a registry, and ALGERIA said that the idea of matching actions with support connotes uncertainty or delay.
The EU and New Zealand urged prioritizing attention to the most vulnerable countries.
The EU, Canada, Japan, Uruguay, Costa Rica and New Zealand preferred using the TOR and work agenda as they stand, stressing the tight work schedule.
The US and Australia said countries could demonstrate progress through institutional and legal steps taken to achieve Protocol Article 3.1 commitments, while Japan suggested the assessment be based on national communications.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed the need to preserve the balance among the various elements of the Paris Agreement and complete the negotiations on additional matters under the APA.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA and NICARAGUA, expressed concern with the title of the workshop on “enhancing mitigation ambition,” stressing the need for a careful reading of Decision 1/CP.17.
The Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for focusing on the core elements of the AWG-KP’s mandate on Annex I parties’ aggregate and individual QELROs.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said that decisions taken in Doha represent hope for the future of multilateral action on climate change; noted success on ambitious objectives and the opening the second commitment period; and looked forward to full and continuous implementation of the decisions.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by CHINA and BOTSWANA, expressed concern about the late distribution of documents for the current session.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the UK, identified two screening processes: the channeling of a case to the proper forum and assessing if a case is unfounded or de minimis.
The EU, Canada, Australia and Japan, opposed by Slovenia, supported one combined session for the sake of efficiency, noting that some details needed clarification.
The US, with Canada, Australia and New Zealand, suggested that where members from one branch participate in the work of the other, it be on a non-voting basis.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by ICELAND, proposed a new Annex C allowing flexibility in expressing commitments, but stressed that the intention was not to change the nature of commitments.
The EU, Papua New Guinea and others supported a workshop before Durban, while Brazil, supported by Suriname and others, suggested a technical expert group, given the technical expertise required for certain issues to be addressed.
Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/China, stressed the importance of limiting discussions to issues related to further quantified commitments for Annex I countries.
Supported by SWITZERLAND and others, the EU stressed that it is not possible for Annex I countries to set targets without first knowing the rules.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the issue’s importance for the Group and noted it should be part of a future agreement, reflecting the Convention’s principles and provisions.
 Several developing countries, including Chile and Peru, raised concerns over the Board 92s proposal to levy US$0.20 per CER to cover its administrative expenses and called for differentiation.
Saudi Arabia, supported by South Africa, France, Belgium, Algeria, Burkina Faso, and Bolivia, suggested that additional organizations be sought for funds to support the Programme in general and for chapter scientists in particular.
 Regarding a sentence stating that the SYR e2 80 99s SPM follows the structure of the longer report, Bolivia, supported by Slovenia, questioned reference to the section heading on e2 80 9cTransformations and changes in systems e2 80 9d and, with Venezuela, Nicaragua and Saudi Arabia, stressed the need to reflect the concept of sustainable development in relation to transformation.
 Malaysia shared the disappointment of AOSIS and said the language is as ambiguous as the original commitments adopted in 1992.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, identified a need for automatic sanctions.
Responding to numerous questions, the EU clarified that Annex X could include all Annex I countries and new OECD members.
FINLAND suggested the AWG look into differentiation methodologies and not just historical responsibility, while CANADA said such responsibility is 93nuanced.
In the discussion, the EU, New Zealand, China and Canada stressed that sectoral approaches should support, not replace, national targets.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by BOLIVIA, called for agreement on a subset of goals before agreement on temperature increase and stabilization, highlighting goals for technology and finance, and the need for clarity on how much financing developed countries will provide in the short- and medium-term.
Morocco, for the G-77/China, said adaptation and mitigation measures will be unsuccessful if developed countries ignore the concerns and situation of vulnerable States.
Senegal, for the LDCs, with the Philippines, thanked the EU for their positive spirit that had allowed capacity building to be taken up at a higher level.
JAPAN and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA highlighted benefits of renewable energy and encouraged efforts to facilitate such projects under the CDM.
GHANA highlighted the importance of innovative mechanisms, incentives, and, with BRAZIL and others, North-South and South-South cooperation.
Papua New Guinea, supported by Costa Rica, Malaysia and Thailand, expressed concern that the option on land-based accounting was omitted from the Chair’s draft text.
The EU, supported by the US and JAPAN, said donors should not place their resources in the hands of the COP.
On additional methodological issues for consideration by SBSTA, SWITZERLAND queried how the proposal by Brazil can be included under the Convention.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, requested clarification on whether the contact group would produce a decision.
AUSTRALIA, the US and NEW ZEALAND supported legal expertise for the enforcement branch, but with access to technical expertise when required.
The Gambia, for LDCs, favored a legally-binding agreement encompassing the BAP, contingent on adoption of a ratifiable second commitment period.
Fiji, for the Group of 77 and China , highlighted that work under the ADP must not lead to the re-interpretation or rewriting of the Convention.
The EU and NORWAY supported the use of GWPs, with the EU highlighting the GWP approach as the most suitable for converting emissions to a common equivalent unit.
France, Switzerland and China also expressed concern with attempting to integrate adaptation and mitigation.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , called for decisions on the framework for various approaches and new market-based mechanisms to establish a pilot phase at COP 19.
Japan, supported by New Zealand, suggested strengthening linkages with existing institutions, including the technology transfer information clearinghouse TT:CLEAR and the CTCN.
Several parties, including China, Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, South Africa and AILAC noted it is premature to discuss placement.
In the final four minutes, PERU supporting Switzerland, asked the Chair to continue informal consultations and requested the allocation of half an hour of SBI\'s meeting time for SBSTA Plenary.
Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , stressed the need to effectively address loss and damage, raise adaptation and mitigation ambition, and maintain environmental integrity in markets.
The US, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, said capacity building should be integrated throughout relevant chapters.
 COP President Hedegaard indicated that proposals relating to adoption of new protocols under the Convention had been received from five countries: Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, Tuvalu and the US .
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, stressed the need to accelerate the negotiating process and supported holding a stocktaking plenary on Friday.
Addressing the initial operative paragraphs of the text, delegates deliberated how to address views on insurance, with the G-77/CHINA preferring to discuss "possible elements of a work programme on insurance," and the US preferring to discuss insurance and risk assessment.
SWITZERLAND, the EU, Peru, for AILAC, the US, NORWAY and JAPAN supported the suspension option with a specific deadline, with some suggesting 2018.
SBSTA Chair Konaté proposed that parties hold the new items in abeyance while consulting on whether to include them on the agenda, allowing work on other agenda items to proceed, as proposed by the African Group and AOSIS.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA and JAPAN said language on differentiation belongs to the paragraph on individual efforts.
France and the Philippines disagreed as to the sub-paragraph"s application to Article 4.3, developed States" obligations.
Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the Arab Group, called on developed countries to continue the legally-binding nature of their obligations and to avoid a gap between commitment periods.
Denmark stressed the need to improve communication among stakeholders, and Senegal discussed societal changes and changes in livelihood activities and stressed raising awareness on the causes of climate change.
In discussions of means to deal with uncertainties, Canada, India, Thailand and others supported referring to a “principle of conservativeness.” Parties disagreed as to whether this was a policy or technical issue, with the US insisting that it be excluded because it has not been defined.
 During informal negotiations, the US and others questioned whether the G-77/China proposal could be improved in consistency, transparency and comparability.
On the treatment of confidential data, the EU, supported by CHINA, said that confidential information should be available to review teams during desk reviews and stressed the development of guidelines for managing electronic information.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported intersessional workshops and the LDCs identified areas for technical workshops.
 Regarding liaison offices, the US, supported by CANADA, proposed performing periodic visits rather than maintaining liaison offices in New York and Geneva.
On finance, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and the US stated developed countries should meet their obligations, and that others in a position to do so should contribute.
Along with KENYA, SAUDI ARABIA and the SUDAN, they also stressed the importance of ensuring the GCF’s accountability to the COP.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, called for the APA to give equal attention to all issues, and for flexibility for developing countries in the transparency framework.
BENIN and SENEGAL highlighted linkages between Africa’s participation in the carbon market and the role of forestry.
Spain, for the EU, encouraged non-Annex I parties to report on impacts of response measures through comprehensive national communications or as supplemental information.
Saudi Arabia expressed concern that elements of the G-77/China’s position were not reflected in the text.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, and the US proposed to conclude the review with an oral recognition of the variety of views expressed, and emphasized the need to focus on modalities, work programme, and functions of the forum under the Paris Agreement.
China, supported by South Africa, emphasized that the TEC should be a strong and independent entity with a role in guidance, setting up programmes and raising financial support.
Brazil questioned Norway’s assertion that mitigation is cheaper in developing countries.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, highlighted the accountability of the financial mechanism to the parties, the requirement to mobilize financial resources, as well as the principle of equity.
BRAZIL supported the AOSIS text but cautioned that too many details may lead to inefficiencies.
Saudi Arabia and Qatar opposed the adoption of the conclusions.
The EU, CANADA, AUSTRALIA and others endorsed the text as a good basis for further discussion.
Saint Lucia, for CARICOM, proposed, inter alia, identifying information needed for determining the aggregate effect of NDCs.
Mexico, Kuwait and others requested more information on this.
The US and Australia opposed amending the conclusions.
On MRV, AUSTRALIA called for standardized reporting by both developed and developing countries and, with INDONESIA, highlighted their joint submission on REDD.
Samoa, speaking for the CARTAGENA DIALOGUE, underscored the need for the Panama meeting to deliver serious technical work on the key elements of the Cancun package and “candid” dialogue on the future of the Kyoto Protocol and a legally-binding agreement.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , highlighted the ADP as a turning point in the UNFCCC negotiations.
BRAZIL and the EU called for national forest monitoring systems.
The LDCs proposed establishing: a clearinghouse to help those lacking capacity and access to the best adaptation technologies; a roster of international adaptation experts; and, with Timor Leste, regional adaptation centers.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, encouraged digitalizing historical data.
On next steps in the climate change process, Samoa, for AOSIS, said that once work on the BAPA is completed, Parties should review commitments under this regime, and suggested that they be stronger and more extensive.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said that they came to Doha for a balanced package and lamented that a number of elements have not been addressed.
On Sources of Information, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, distinguished between mandatory and non-mandatory sources.
Spain, for the EU, with CANADA and AUSTRALIA, called for symmetry and balance.
Republic of Korea, for EIG, called for the international assessment and review  and international consultation and analysis to provide lessons for the Paris Agreement’s transparency framework and for resolving outstanding issues on the budget.
In response to interventions from Brazil and Norway, participants agreed on language stating that afforestation and bioenergy “may,” rather than “can,” compete with other land uses.
NEW ZEALAND and the EU said this might duplicate the work of the SBI in reviewing national communications.
Brazil, for ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, and URUGUAY, called for balanced progress on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation; lamented the lack of transparency in the third biennial reports on finance-related information provided by developed countries, and stressed the need to focus on pre-2020 ambition.
 The US, JAPAN and AUSTRALIA strongly supported AIJ.
Discussing the energy and water sectors, Egypt highlighted the use of institutions to enhance international and regional cooperation, and Nepal described changes to water resource management to address problems of water availability.
BRAZIL, on behalf of the G-77/China, and opposed by CANADA, the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, proposed insertion of additional text on factoring out containing specific reference to the draft COP/MOP decision on LULUCF, decision 11/CP.7 , and other related LULUCF issues.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group , highlighted the ADP as a turning point in the UNFCCC negotiations.
SWEDEN said success in Marrakesh would constitute a powerful pledge for the US to reconsider its decision to be part of a global coalition to combat climate change.
Malaysia, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, stressed that it was premature to launch contact groups before Doha and to hold ministerial meetings on the ADP in Doha, considering the early and exploratory stage of the discussions under the ADP.
South Africa, the EU and others supported having the pre-sessional meeting jointly convened by the SBSTA and SBI Chairs.
France, on behalf of the European Union , stressed that domestic actions should be the main means for fulfilling developed country commitments.
NEW ZEALAND, with the EU, US and JAPAN, emphasized that such estimates from all sectors should be prepared under good practice guidance, and be adjusted when they are not prepared according to the agreed methodologies.
SWITZERLAND stressed that non-big-ticket items should not be overlooked and, supported by CANADA, suggested that further elaboration of some items may be necessary before parties could provide their views on the topic.
JAPAN, also on behalf CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA, put forward a proposal for a draft COP decision expressly deferring the issue of the nature of the consequences to COP/MOP-1.
TURKEY emphasized the importance of adaptation and GHANA underscored the need for immediate progress on technology transfer in the context of mitigation and adaptation.
 c2 a0The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by the LDCs and opposed by CHINA, suggested replacing e2 80 9celements e2 80 9d with e2 80 9ccomponents.
Dominica, for the G-77/CHINA, introduced their draft text which is divided into a preamble, recommendations to be considered for the Doha Work Programme, the role of the Secretariat and intergovernmental organizations.
 Saudi Arabia, China, Kuwait, Venezuela, Argentina, India and others, opposed by the EU, Singapore, Mexico, Australia and the US, suggested considering trade measures.
Algeria, for the Group of 77 and China , said the Durban Platform must ensure strong linkages among mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation, and include the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities .
On the procedures for the enforcement branch, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, opposed by the EU, suggested text reflecting the right for the Party concerned to have a closed hearing.
VENEZUELA requested information on the role of the various texts on the table and sought assurance that the role of ministers will not be the same as in the “horrible Copenhagen Summit.” NICARAGUA highlighted the new text as “an informal text,” emphasizing that facilitators cannot be the interpreters of party positions.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CANADA supported work on inventories for sources of new technologies and gap identification.
 Swaziland, for the African Group, highlighted, inter alia, that: the legal status of the second commitment period is not negotiable; a five-year commitment period is needed to avoid locking in low levels of ambition; and that not all Annex I parties have submitted adequate, or any, information on QELROs.
However, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Iran and Libya were not in support of the text.
NEW ZEALAND, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and CANADA said they could not support the encouragement of introducing quotas for Certified Emission Reductions originating from LDCs, SIDS and Africa during the second commitment period.
Colombia indicated that carbon pools should be accounted for "within the project boundary" and the EU and AOSIS said the proposed definitions on the "project boundary" should be amended to differentiate between boundaries relevant to accounting methods and those exclusively geographical in nature.
The United States underlined the need to respect national circumstances, notably energy endowments, and applauded efforts by India, China and South Africa.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and ARGENTINA stressed the need to link adaptation to MOI.
Many parties noted agreement on the continuation of the Convention principles, with: CHINA stressing CBDR; BARBADOS and NORWAY highlighting the precautionary principle; and the US suggesting that principles need to evolve to reflect changing circumstances and capabilities.
New Zealand cautioned against using considerable negotiation time on a global goal, whereas Chile, for AILAC, said agreeing on a global goal is key.
 Antigua and Barbuda, for the G-77/CHINA, urged a focus on quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives  for Annex I parties.
Japan and the EU stated that there was an overlap between this agenda item and the SBSTA item on Protocol Article 2.3 .
China, Canada and several others suggested adopting the draft decision and addressing the Russian Federation 92s concerns in a different format or at a later date.
 Cuba, China and the UK supported adding information on historical emissions from before 1970.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for a continued focus on the possible headings of draft text.
The US opposed references in the text to parliamentarians and legislators as observers, while Saudi Arabia, supported by Egypt, opposed referring to parliamentarians and legislators, saying their participation and role should be considered by each party according to its national circumstances and legal framework.
 The US and Australia, to name a few developed countries, seemed to be pleased with the outcome.
 Mauritius said his delegation did not have very much to be proud of, and will leave Berlin with a sense of sadness for having something that is \'half-baked.\' The wide support for the AOSIS protocol was not reflected in the final decision.
On the inclusion of activities in decision 7/CP.7 , particularly on economic diversification, the EU, with NORWAY, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, called for the deletion of the reference.
The G-77/China favored the conventional UN regional approach, but JUSCANZ and the EU, because of the specifics of Convention, wanted an Annex I/non-Annex I balance.
On the draft COP decision on Article 17, AUSTRALIA, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAMOA and the EU, proposed deleting the recommendation that COP/MOP-1 adopt the decision on emissions trading, arguing that the principles, modalities, rules and guidelines for trading should be defined by the COP.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed willingness to move to textual discussions but urged balance among mitigation, adaptation and MOI, avoiding reinterpretation of the Paris Agreement and maintaining differentiation.Iran, for the LMDCs, expressed concern that mitigation items are advancing faster than those on adaptation and MOI.
The Secretariat and POLAND provided details on the workshop to be held in July in Poznan, Poland, and the Secretariat outlined the process for the 1 August submissions.
The LDCs and BRAZIL, also for ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, opposed by the EIG, called for a pre-sessional roundtable.
 On long-term and global aspects of mitigation, Algeria, for the ARAB GROUP, reminded parties that Decision 1/CP.16  recognizes the need for a longer time frame for the peaking of GHG emissions in developing countries.
KUWAIT, supported by NIGERIA and VENEZUELA, said Parties, rather than the IPCC, should determine the nature of this paper.
SENEGAL, for the Africa Group, said definitions and modalities should be flexible and applicable to the local ecological context.
China welcomed the decision on the Fiji Momentum for Implementation, and said the COP 23 outcome reflects a balance in representing parties’ views and lays a good basis for the scheduled conclusion of the Paris Agreement work programme.
The EU and others supported simplifying CDM procedures and facilitating work on methodologies for Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions.
New Zealand said the draft text only notes the proposals by Germany and AOSIS, and does not indicate agreement.
The G-77/China and South Africa said a discussion on which language should be included in decisions is beyond the group e2 80 99s mandate.
 On this issue , NAURU stressed the importance of the item for AOSIS and said discussions on an international mechanism on loss and damage should start already at the current session.
AOSIS, the US and AILAC made suggestions regarding their planning and follow up.
Other issues to be discussed include: cleaner or less greenhouse gas-emitting energy; the implementation of Protocol Article 2.3 ; special circumstances of Croatia under UNFCCC Article 4.6 ; the Croatian proposal on forest management activities under Protocol Article 3.4 ; a Canadian proposal on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 7.4  in relation to cleaner energy exports; the request from a group of countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and the Republic of Moldova  for the clarification of the term "developing countries" in the context of UNFCCC decisions; review of the adequacy of commitments under the UNFCCC; and a series of administrative and organizational matters.
The EU, Japan and Australia expressed doubts about bringing this matter before the ACABQ.
JAPAN and SINGAPORE said that ICAO and IMO are the appropriate bodies to address this issue.
Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted the Dialogue had brought out a variety of stories affirming that Africa is the “most vulnerable continent.”
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed a compliance mechanism with an enforcement branch dealing with countries with economy-wide targets, and a facilitative branch to assist developing countries.
 Emphasizing the IPCC 92s position as an intergovernmental organization and that individuals must represent their own countries, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION expressed support for removing the brackets around Rule 20, as did others, including ARGENTINA, AUSTRIA, SAUDIA ARABIA, FRANCE, the US, CHINA, and KENYA.
Several supported a permanent technical expert group, opposed by the US and AUSTRALIA.
The Gambia, for the G-77/China, suggested requesting the Secretariat to compile and synthesize the outcomes and recommendations from the regional workshops held so far, together with the implementation of these outcomes and recommendations.
Kenya, for the African Group, emphasized transparency of action and support, while the EU stressed the framework’s importance for implementing and tracking progress on NDCs.
PANAMA highlighted a GEF regional adaptation project being implemented in Central America, Mexico and Cuba, which aims to assess current vulnerability to climate hazards through a process involving all stakeholders.
India and China also opposed the proposals, with India stressing that they conflict with the Convention and the BAP, as they seek to erase the distinction between developed and developing countries and impose new mitigation and reporting commitments on the latter.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for operationalizing a more efficient and equitable international financial mechanism.
LATVIA supported the EU proposal for a Buenos Aires work plan.
CANADA noted upcoming revised technology needs assessment  guidelines, and the US recommended no further TNAs be funded until the new guidelines become available.
The G-77/CHINA stressed the UNFCCC as the legitimate channel for the regime’s full implementation and, with the PHILIPPINES, underscored the Convention as providing the context and principles of any related decisions.
India, with Saudi Arabia, cautioned against revising the principles of the Convention.
The US, Canada and Japan supported a decision on Article 3.3  and 3.4 as a package, arguing that this is critical to the success of the Protocol.
On the proposed item on a work programme on agriculture, NEW ZEALAND, with CANADA, said the work programme would allow the SBSTA to explore technical and methodological issues relating to adaptation and mitigation in the agriculture sector.
Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the LDCs, and Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted progress on, inter alia: the NWP; development and transfer of technology; research and systematic observation; and the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures.
Samoa and the US said the enforcement branch could address specific provisions and the facilitation branch could have broad jurisdiction.
On regional changes in climate at 1.5 c2 b0C warming, Belgium, Angola, and Portugal asked for clarification on references to “changes in drought,” following which the text was modified to refer to an increase in intensity or frequency of droughts in some regions.
He also underscored that the proposal by Papua New Guinea and Mexico to amend the Convention concerning voting constituted admission that procedural rules had been violated in Cancun.
Brazil, supported by Singapore and the US, said a reference to sustainable development should remain in the paragraph.
The Republic of Korea offered to host IPCC-32 in Busan, and Belgium announced its invitation to hold IPCC-33 in Liege, Belgium.
The UK, opposed by China and the US, proposed alternative language on 93impacts which might be avoided for given ranges of temperature, noting that adaptation also needs to be taken into account.
The EU underscored the need for transparency on QELROs and, supported by St. Lucia, for AOSIS, proposed that countries make presentations on their QELROs submissions.
The EU stated that consideration of this issue by the SBSTA is premature, while BRAZIL stressed problems caused by the use of global warming potentials, saying this has misguided mitigation efforts.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that there was no agreement to include the item on the agenda.
The EU, with Canada, proposed a pre-sessional workshop, as it would be more cost efficient and would not interfere with other agenda items.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for simplified procedures for SIDS to access resources to implement climate actions.
The G-77/CHINA proposed inserting preambular language in the text and, with Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, BRAZIL, BANGLADESH and BOLIVIA, explained that the goal was to ensure consistency between sections of the negotiating text.
CANADA, with NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, suggested that Parties discuss the proposed draft decision further at COP-8.
Ecuador, for ALBA, said: greater commitment was required from developed countries; there is no room for conditionalities in negotiations; and that transparency in negotiations and inclusion of all parties is needed.
In its presentation, AUSTRIA noted an individual target outside the EU emissions trading system  for a 16% emission reduction between 2005-2020.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, urged establishing a second commitment period under the Protocol and opposed attempts by developed countries to “kill the Protocol” or supersede it with a new treaty.
Canada, the EU, Norway, Japan, Russian Federation and New Zealand favored retaining it in some form, and discussions continued late into the night.
On output, GRENADA and Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, stressed the need for the global stocktake to conclude in 2023 to allow parties to take stock of its output in preparing their NDCs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, drew attention to the need for all parties to participate in the existing transparency system and for extending the Lima work programme on gender.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said Copenhagen should produce a robust and resilient foundation to steer collective efforts, and welcomed discussions on a shared vision.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA noted that the logo in plenary refers only to “COP 15” and said it should also refer to COP/MOP 5.
 CHINA said discussion should be on substantive issues, not the structure of a legal instrument, and that China is flexible on the form of instrument.
The LDCs, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and the EU supported a e2 80 9cnon-threatening e2 80 9d and facilitative review process.
Brazil, on behalf of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, said that although there was progress during the week, the current status of negotiations showed a “clear misbalance across different topics.”
The EU, Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA, and the US made suggestions on themes.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted dialogues that have already taken place in the region, and identified predictable finance and technology transfer as cornerstones for achieving the Paris Agreement’s goals.
Spain and Germany cautioned against this approach.
China also questioned language in a statement indicating that “approaches that do not include a larger share of global emissions will have higher global costs” and proposed changing “larger share of global emissions” to “wider participation.” The US questioned the meaning of “wider participation” and Brazil opposed the language as policy prescriptive and prejudging future agreement since also “deeper cuts” would reduce emissions.
Kenya and Uganda appealed for a special fund for developing countries other than LDCs.
Grenada, supported by Peru and the EU, and opposed by Uganda, preferred deleting the paragraph exempting SIDS from payment of fees and retaining the option permitting postponement of the payment of fees by parties with fewer than ten registered projects, noting that exempting all countries with fewer than ten projects could negatively impact the functioning of the CDM Executive Board.
The US, COSTA RICA and MICRONESIA called for an electronic template for reporting, clear rules for participation and a schedule for submissions.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by JORDAN, said consideration of including CCS under the CDM should be added to the list.
Along with Kenya, Saudi Arabia and the Sudan, they also stressed the importance of ensuring the GCF’s accountability to the COP.
On the "analytical framework," the UK, AUSTRALIA and the US raised a number of questions.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, SAMOA and JAMAICA, and opposed by the US and CANADA, said assigned amounts  were fixed.
JAPAN urged for a comprehensive post-2012 legal framework, and said the non-paper is too narrow, while SOUTH AFRICA welcomed it as being close to the mandate.
 Portugal, for the EU, said growth in global emissions must be halted in the next 10-15 years and urged a comprehensive global agreement by 2009.
On  , South Africa, for the G-77/China, preferred using the Compliance Committee to address implementation of Protocol Article 3.14  and to facilitate compliance under Protocol Article 2.3 .
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund also under the Convention.
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela both raised concerns about the text.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, supported a role for the COP/MOP.
CANADA, with the EU, NORWAY and JAPAN, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, proposed that the SCCF support adaptation and mitigation activities.
COP 23 President Bainimarama called for acting now to kickstart the just transformation towards a better world, saying that multilateralism and a global coalition of actors can “take us there.” Noting that the exchange of ideas and best practices must now be translated into concrete actions, he said the “Talanoa Dialogue must give way to the Talanoa Call for Action.” He also called on all countries to join Fiji and Marshall Islands in committing to raise the ambition of NDCs, and to bring concrete plans to the 2019 Climate Summit, informed by the Talanoas.
Belgium, supported by Germany and Luxembourg, expressed concern that referring specifically to literature related to the physical science aspects could affect WGI’s ability to fully participate on cross-cutting issues.
TUVALU, supported by NORWAY and ZAMBIA, considered financing of readiness activities and implementation to represent a spectrum within a single issue.
The following countries presented their biennial update reports: India, Indonesia, Israel, Malaysia, Mauritania, Montenegro, Morocco, Republic of Moldova, Thailand and Uruguay.
The US called for comprehensive coverage and consistency between the Protocol and Convention, and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION cautioned against inclusion of insignificant gases.
A number of developing countries, including BOLIVIA, SOUTH AFRICA and Belize, for AOSIS, presented additional textual proposals or brackets to the c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 c2 a0 G-77/China proposals.
 : The eleventh session of WGIII met from 5-8 May 2011 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and approved the SRREN and its SPM.
Burkina Faso, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged conclusions on national adaptation plans to ensure the process can be launched as soon as possible.
The Maldives, for the G-77/CHINA, and the AFRICAN GROUP emphasized the need to reflect binding commitments by developed countries, as well as short-, medium- and long-term actions.
 Algeria, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, encouraged Annex I parties to raise their level of ambition, and urged those parties who have not put forward QELROs to do so.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported by AUSTRALIA, BARBADOS and CANADA, called for a focus on core issues rather than on principles.
 On Friday, 18 November, the CMP adopted the report on credentials , in addition to the credentials for Nauru and Ukraine, as reported orally by CMP 12 President Mezouar.
Many developing countries, including Egypt, South Africa, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, Ecuador, Iran, Algeria, Brazil, India, Syria, Madagascar, Malaysia, the Maldives, El Salvador, Chile and Malawi, spoke strongly in favor of the second option, noting that the current arrangement does not allow for equal footing for both Co-Chairs.
The US added that developing countries should be eligible for support in implementing their contributions, and that LDCs and others should have flexibility to submit at their discretion without expectation.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted, inter alia: the urgency of enhancing pre-2020 action and support; concerns about basing funding for developing country participation on per capita GDP; and concerns about the approach being taken to the 2017-2018 biennial budget.
 Germany, for the EU, said the work done during AWG 3 and input from the IPCC have provided a solid foundation on which to proceed.
The EU, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND highlighted related proposals for Protocol amendments, as well as links with adaptation and finance discussions under the AWG-LCA.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA and SWITZERLAND, emphasized the need to find a space to discuss the level of ambition, clarification of pledges and accounting.
BRAZIL and ICELAND indicated that the issue of sinks needed to be sorted out before settling targets for QELROs.
JAPAN, supported by SWITZERLAND, pointed to duplication in the text on inputs.
Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called on the Presidency to ensure bilateral consultations both with the G-77/China as a whole, and with the main sub-groups of the G-77/China.
The G-77/China and Saudi Arabia, opposed by Canada and Australia, proposed text on the need to minimize the adverse effects of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms.
A number of countries, including the EU, the G-77/CHINA, MALAYSIA, CANADA, SAUDI ARABIA, NIGERIA and THAILAND, emphasized the importance of specialized information centers and networks.
The US, initially opposed by Saudi Arabia, said the decision-making authority should rest with the ExComm.
The African Group, Australia and others welcomed progress on this issue.
CHINA, the EU and others outlined their capacity building activities.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the need to move to full negotiation mode and discuss legal issues in 2009.
URUGUAY, SENEGAL and JAMAICA called on the international community to provide more financial support to the Fund.
MOROCCO, in the capacity of the future host of COP 22/CMP 12, thanked parties, in particular the African Group, for their trust, informing that the conference would take place in Marrakesh, from 7-18 November 2016.
ALGERIA noted potential negative consequences of the Directive 2008/101/EC to include aviation emissions under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
JAPAN indicated that technology transfer to emerging economies such as China is occurring, and reported on several success stories.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, Liberia, for the LDCs, and Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, with many developing countries, called for a capacity-building body or center to, inter alia: provide a more structured and holistic approach to capacity building; analyze gaps in, and help in the implementation of, activities; monitor implementation; increase coherence and synergies among activities; publicize financing opportunities; assist the LDCs in building climate resilience; and support country-driven actions.
Opposed by INDIA, Grenada, for AOSIS, called for continuing discussions on the legal form in the contact group.
Co-Chair Cooper requested the US, G-77/China, and EU to consult informally to seek agreement on the outstanding paragraphs of the draft conclusions.
In the ensuing discussion, Egypt stressed the need to add children as a vulnerable group, while India suggested mentioning the salt-mining industry in the list of vulnerable sectors.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for Durban to deliver a clear and ambitious mandate to negotiate a legally-binding agreement under the Convention and a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
On translating the TEP into effective actions on the ground, the US, with the EU and AUSTRALIA, said the TEP should evolve, and be regularly reviewed and improved.
South Africa, for BASIC, urged the Talanoa narratives presented at COP 24 to reflect, in a balanced manner, experiences on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
The EU, CHILE, AILAC and AOSIS supported ministerial engagement under workstream 2.
Maldives, for AOSIS, expressed concern about progress, saying all agenda items need to advance equally, and called for draft texts that encompass all elements of the Paris Agreement work programme.
Hungary and the Africa Group, opposed by the Russian Federation and Australia, advocated implementation of a quantitative limitation on the flexibility mechanisms.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and others underscored the need to accelerate the process.
On Structure, SAUDI ARABIA, with SAMOA, said members should equally represent the five UN regional groups.
Following concerns raised by TUVALU, supported by ECUADOR, SWITZERLAND and others, he clarified that the non-paper is not a negotiating text.
Supported by India, Saudi Arabia supported working on the basis of the AWG-LCA’s report to COP 15.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by BURKINA FASO, said SBSTA should task the IPCC to examine, inter alia, methods for distinguishing natural and anthropogenic sinks, the role of carbon stocks and wood products, definitions of eligible land uses and the role of sinks in biodiversity protection.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, urged including the costs of inaction as well as action, and said Annex I parties should focus on domestic emission reductions.
With New Zealand and the US, Canada supported a seller regime complemented by an effective compliance system.
Spain, for the EU, stated that the EU’s emissions in 2008 decreased domestically by 11.3% compared to 1990 levels and welcomed advances made on key elements such as adaptation, finance, national communications and Convention Article 6.
CROATIA, for BULGARIA and ROMANIA, said that they would cooperate in a new group called the Central Group.
On a question by CANADA on mitigation-relevant sectoral plans included in Kazakhstan’s Strategic Development Plan, she mentioned water and waste management, transport and energy efficiency.
The EU, opposed by Canada, Japan and Australia, emphasized the establishment of a consultative process to ensure continuity of information exchange.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern with the trend under the Kyoto Protocol towards flexibility based on “promises and reviews,” calling for genuinely legally-binding commitments under the Protocol.
On Tuesday, 12 September, Brazil, on behalf of the G-77/China, presented basic principles for Article 3.3 and 3.4 to the contact group.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , expressed support for working on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 draft decisions and non-paper, highlighted EIG members e2 80 99 contributions to the Green Climate Fund , and expressed the group e2 80 99s commitment to timely communication of INDCs.
On  , the EU and Canada expressed an interest in discount factors, and the Republic of Korea and Ethiopia supported multiplication factors.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and others, opposed by BARBADOS, the PHILIPPINES and others, supported enhancing existing institutions.
France, Peru and Pakistan proposed their inclusion, but the Lead Authors indicated there is no evidence in the literature, and Co-Chair Parry elaborated that the problem is establishing the relationship with climate change.
SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern with such linkage, while TUVALU and the EU urged linkage to legal matters and SWITZERLAND stressed the need for consistency with decisions regarding legal matters.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concerns about the implementation of national adaptation plans, and stressed transparency and additionality of financial resources.
With the US and CANADA, he suggested that the revised uniform reporting format be discussed at SBSTA-14.
SWITZERLAND and the EU underscored the importance of training reviewers.
Support for assisting developing countries in inventories work was widely expressed, including by Samoa, Syria, Iran, Ghana, the Gambia, Sierra Leone and Kenya.
ARGENTINA and NEW ZEALAND suggested that national circumstances, such as geographical remoteness, required consideration.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed the constructive spirit, adding that, although progress had been modest, she was confident it will accelerate.
On a paragraph with three options relating to information to be provided in INDCs, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, called for referencing sections of the text on support.
On Tuesday, 2 June, Bolivia announced a submission on non-market-based approaches, and Ghana, for the African Group, announced a submission on non-carbon benefits.
On the Umbrella Group 92s funding proposal and the alternative put forward by the EU, he said they represent a step forward but still require more negotiation.
In response to Malaysia on the classification of forest according to canopy density, India noted that this has been done successfully in India for years and is a technical issue.
INDIA, INDONESIA, COSTA RICA and others suggested including conservation, while Gabon, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, proposed a stabilization fund to sustain current efforts.
Ecuador, for the LMDCs, supported by Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, proposed development of a synthesis report on adaptation communications as a component of NDCs, based on submissions by parties.
JAPAN and the EU drew attention to their recent ratifications, and encouraged other Parties to follow suit.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, said the Group was willing to continue working based on the Chair’s text while identifying the need to address certain issues, including enhancing the treatment of adaptation.
Stressing the need to reflect all parties’ views, CHINA highlighted the “constructive proposal” by the Philippines and said discussions on how to organize work in more concrete terms can take place once the agenda has been adopted.
Belgium, for the EUROPEAN UNION , called for a balanced package within and across the two negotiating tracks.
The AFRICAN GROUP urged assessing the impact of mitigation measures on Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for: a compilation and synthesis report on non-Annex I national communications; further elaboration of the NAMA process, including a simplified procedure for least developed countries  and small island developing States ; establishing an international mechanism to address loss and damage at COP 18; and a new programme on Convention Article 6 .
SOUTH AFRICA, with the Gambia, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, NORWAY and others supported making the tables widely available.
The US and JAPAN bracketed the list of activities aimed at improving the transparency, effectiveness and comparability of P&amp;Ms. JAPAN and the US, opposed by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, advocated deleting the link between P&amp;Ms and demonstrable progress.
Sierra Leone and El Salvador called for distinguishing between extreme events and other impacts such as pest outbreaks, species extinction and beach erosion.
Colombia, on behalf of Peru and Guatemala, proposed that representatives of the COP, possibly through the Standing Committee and the GCF Board, work on drafting the arrangements.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, expressed commitment to being part of a durable, fair, effective and comprehensive outcome with the participation of all major economies.
GUYANA called for adequate and predictable financing for early action on REDD+ and long-term initiatives led by Annex I countries, and, with SINGAPORE, emphasized the need for a clear understanding on the final outcome of the AWG-LCA.
On the options for the budget, the EU supported a 9% increase, while Japan supported zero nominal growth.
Many parties expressed appreciation for the conclusion of work on this agenda item, with PANAMA announcing she looked forward to focusing attention on ADP negotiations, and the EU noting that guidance on safeguards information systems could be improved.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and NORWAY, stressed the need for predictable and adequate funding levels.
Initially only some developing countries expressed support for the AOSIS draft protocol while OPEC countries and China said that protocol negotiations were premature since neither the best available scientific information nor the review of Annex I Parties communications provided a sufficient basis for negotiations.
Opposed by the EU, the G-77/CHINA suggested removing reference to Article 4.2 throughout the draft decision, noting that this was judgmental.
Australia, supported by Japan and Norway, but opposed by Bolivia, Venezuela, Singapore, Sudan, Brazil and others, called for a broader discussion of the commitments of all countries.
The LMDCs, supported by IRAN and the EU, suggested working on critical areas, such as mitigation, adaptation and MOI, and prioritizing and sequencing key elements.
The EU called for a commitment cycle of 10 years and, supported by the US, for a five-year cycle of review and revision.
The LDCs recommended inserting a caveat for LDCs and SIDS on the inclusion of mitigation in INDCs.
Switzerland, Chile, for AILAC, and South Africa supported a compliance mechanism.
 Under 9.2, the Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, added "of Annex 1 Parties" after "national communications."
The G-77/China, supported by the EU, stressed the importance of the Secretariat also considering gaps and shortfalls in implementing the framework.
 Identifying building blocks for future cooperation, the EU and Norway called for a “shared vision” to reach the UNFCCC’s ultimate objective of stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations to a level that avoids dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system .
The EU and NORWAY opposed applying flexibility at a general level.
India, Indonesia, Israel, Malaysia, Mauritania, Montenegro, Morocco, the Republic of Moldova, Thailand and Uruguay presented their biennial update reports.
AOSIS, the EU and the G-77/China sought a process that would invite submissions and address the issue at COP 11, while the US said there was no need for further UNFCCC work on this matter, and preferred shorter text taking note of the Mauritius Strategy.
 In the morning ADP roundtable on workstream 2, Nauru, for AOSIS, presented draft decision text on “enhancing pre-2020 mitigation ambition,” highlighting that it provides a detailed ADP work plan for 2013.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BELARUS emphasized that different economic circumstances must be taken into account when deciding on targets.
China stressed the importance of the forum to minimize or prevent the negative impacts of response measures, and expressed concern with the inclusion of aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
AOSIS, with Bangladesh, highlighted the right to survival.
Peru, for AILAC, with many other parties, highlighted the need for coordination with related issues being discussed elsewhere.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed, inter alia, a new paragraph on differentiation, and MOI provisions to enable mitigation.
Mozambique, with Belgium, called for "more action and less talk."
NORWAY, GUYANA and COLOMBIA suggested terminology on “emissions displacement” rather than “leakage.” AUSTRALIA highlighted the need to consider the implementation of REDD-plus and suggested including a section on an operational framework.
The Gambia, for LDCs, called for a spin-off group on the scale of funding, based on the needs of developing countries.
 Fiji/Bonn Climate Change Conference convened from 6-17 November 2017 in Bonn, Germany, under the COP Presidency of Fiji.
On biennial reports, MALI noted the reports should address mitigation and means of implementation, and SAUDI ARABIA emphasized reporting on the effects of mitigation activities.
Several parties, including New Zealand, the US, Norway and Switzerland, expressed their intention to voluntarily apply the revised guidelines or consider including some of the guidelines’ elements, in their NC7s.
SENEGAL called for a science-based approach, and the LDCs identified the need to determine the percent of emission reductions that can be achieved through offsetting.
The G-77/CHINA and TUVALU supported focusing on the Protocol’s current text, and CHINA highlighted the limited and technical nature of the required changes.
Honduras, for SICA, stressed the need to complete the AWG-LCA’s mandate under the Bali Action Plan and evaluate which of its elements have not been completed by COP 18.
After extensive debate, the G-77/CHINA proposed, with the EU and NEW ZEALAND, a reworked text as a negotiating document.
On Thursday morning, New Zealand reported that the contact group had discussed concerns related to overall representation of regions and that the Secretariat had reported that both suggestions from the US were consistent with the IPCC Rules of Procedure.
CANADA, the US and JAPAN, opposed by GHANA, suggested using the EGTT’s performance indicators for the review.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed that mitigation measures should contribute to economic diversification in developing countries, and expressed the need for measurement, reporting and verification  of support.
CANADA and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO on behalf of AOSIS stated that Article 17.2  should not hinder the new legal instrument.
Responding to the Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, the US clarified concerns on: ensuring the governing structure includes countries not party to the Kyoto Protocol; fitting the Fund into the post-Paris financial architecture; evaluating the Fund’s effectiveness; agreeing on all sources of funding; and reviewing the safeguards policy.
Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, urged balance and coherence across the APA and SBs.
Switzerland and Belgium recommended exploring synergies with activities taken under UNFCCC Article 6 .
Austria recommended holding in-session workshops during SBSTA meetings as a forum for parties to report on lessons learned on adaptation, while the Cook Islands highlighted the potential role of intersessional working groups.
BRAZIL, BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA and others lamented the lack of an option in the text on developed country mitigation on a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the EU, proposed that the TEMs also identify the negative impacts of response measures.
JAPAN, supported by SWITZERLAND, discussed the need to evaluate co-benefits.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CUBA, EGYPT, INDONESIA, VENEZUELA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDIA and others, opposed by the US and the EU, called for establishing a spin-off group on finance.
 On Friday, 25 October, Canada introduced draft decision text supported by New Zealand, Poland, the Russian Federation and Slovenia, and opposed by G-77/ China, Switzerland, and the US.
NORWAY and JAPAN called for the TEC and CTCN to be more involved in the TEMs, with NEW ZEALAND suggesting they manage the TEMs and communicate TEM outcomes.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, said that they could not provide an overview of the new text as it was just delivered.
COP-6 then adopted a resolution proposed by Nigeria, on behalf of the G-77/China, expressing the COP 92s gratitude to the Netherlands and the city of The Hague for hosting this meeting .
On the review process, Saudi Arabia, China and others said the review should be completed in Poznań, while the EU, Australia and others identified the need to continue considering some issues under other bodies, such as the SBI.
France, on behalf of the EU, supported using a Memorandum of Understanding  as a form of institutional arrangement and agreed with the procedure for creating the agreement.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and the US proposed alternative text listing activities relating to the implementation of decision 5/CP.7  to reflect that progress had been made.
Adverse Effects: The G-77/CHINA, NEPAL and others said developing countries are the most affected by climate change, and Annex I countries must implement their commitments relating to provision of financial resources and technology transfer.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by Grenada, for AOSIS, suggested forwarding issues related to mitigation by developed countries, market approach and finance to the political level.
The US, with CANADA and the EU, proposed that non-Annex I Parties should also be allowed to submit information if they wish to do so.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said the framework should measure progress toward a global goal of 1.5 c2 b0 or 2 c2 b0C and promote participation of all countries.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and the US emphasized making the five-year cycle clear.
Australia and the US encouraged complementary activities outside the UNFCCC, including by non-state actors, with the US suggesting the COP could be a venue for catalyzing such actions.
Brazil, for Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, noted they had “expected a lot more” from Bangkok, and warned that parties were leaving themselves a lot of work for Katowice.
 In other statements, Antigua and Barbuda, on behalf of the Caribbean Community, said industrialized countries should take significant steps to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA stressed the inclusion of developing country scientists, and literature in languages other than English.
Nepal, for the Least Developed Countries , urged allocating sufficient time for workshops and roundtables, and supported the establishment of two contact groups for the two workstreams.
GUYANA, CHINA, PAKISTAN, OMAN and GABON noted that the level of Annex I aggregate emission reductions currently on the table does not reach the level of ambition needed, and called on Annex I countries to increase their pledges.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, called for an open, party-driven, transparent, and inclusive process that focuses on implementing the Bali Action Plan.
Cognizant of continued support for all the topics and the need to limit SRs to no more than three, the US, Saint Lucia, Solomon Islands, Maldives, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Luxembourg, Indonesia, Mexico, the EU, Germany and Venezuela supported undertaking the land use and oceans and cryosphere SRs during AR6 cycle, emphasizing cities in AR6, and flagging an SR on cities for the AR7 cycle.
On a headline sentence stating that  , and can be enhanced through integrated responses that link adaptation and mitigation with other societal objectives, Brazil, with El Salvador, stressed the need to include a reference to the importance of international cooperation in addressing climate change.
Responding to BRAZIL e2 80 99s request to elaborate on Latvia e2 80 99s Climate Change Financial Instrument, she said the national programme has resulted in the implementation of more than 2,200 projects in the areas of energy efficiency, technology conversion, development of GHG-reducing technologies and awareness raising.
CHINA, with BRAZIL, suggested only exempting countries with economies in transition, while the EU cautioned against “discrimination of our Member States.” After discussion, parties agreed to apply in-country in-depth reviews to all Annex I parties without exemption.
 Martin Aub c3 a9, Canada, and Matthew Billson, UK, shared their countries e2 80 99 experiences with CCS.
AUSTRALIA and other Annex I Parties, as well as the EU, put forward the documents they had produced for the contact group.
NEW ZEALAND proposed examining complementary sectoral targets and CANADA preferred early discussions on sectoral approaches.
BRAZIL, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, SWAZILAND, SUDAN and others emphasized that retaining the item in abeyance would constitute the most efficient use of time.
Hungary, Luxembourg and Mauritius also voiced support for this option if a third SR were possible.
The US, REPUBLIC OF KOREA, AUSTRALIA and NORWAY supported the themes proposed for the COP-10 high-level segment , with minor changes.
  On the agenda , MALAYSIA, supported by CHINA, BRAZIL, EGYPT, INDIA and others, highlighted the sensitivity of the agenda sub-item on information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
Pakistan called for a fast-track procedure for technology transfer, and South Africa highlighted the role of incremental costs and market mechanisms.
The UK, with ARGENTINA and the US, suggested that the IPCC should 93have a story 94 on aerosols, even if that story is the postponement of further work until after the AR4.
Delegates also discussed the possibility of consolidation in the EU farm and livestock industry similar to that in the US agricultural sector, and the effects on mitigation.
After some debate, the Chair invited the EU, the US and the G-77/China to discuss the issue informally.
 Under this agenda item , Tuvalu, for the LDCs, emphasized comparable eligibility rules for any proposed mechanism.
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for integration of agreed reporting processes into the future agreement and said that “transparency builds trust.”
CHINA, supported by ALGERIA, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA, emphasized the need for ambitious commitments from Annex I parties, that developed countries are supposed to lead and that they are obligated under the Kyoto Protocol to commit to reductions in a second commitment period.
South Africa, for BASIC , stressed that the ADP outcome should be in complete accordance with all the Convention principles, particularly CBDR and equity.
China, supported by Brazil and Cuba, requested that additional data from before 1970 be included.
Bolivia noted the absence of his proposals in the text, referring to the text as “Copenhagen +.” The Gambia expressed concern that long-term finance and references to LDCs and SIDS were not reflected in the text.
 During informal consultations, parties presented written submissions on a possible decision text by: the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA; the EU; and CANADA, on behalf of Australia, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions and said he will submit a proposal concerning the Russian Federation amendment, which was not accepted in this session, in time for consideration at the second session.
 During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, underscored that Annex I parties must urgently raise their level of ambition, and highlighted the need to finalize outstanding issues, including LULUCF accounting rules and the flexibility mechanisms.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, supported by the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored that response measures are well addressed in the context of mitigation and elsewhere in the text, and should not be included in the chapter on adaptation.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, requested a discussion on the legal nature of the work and a compilation of pledges of all developed country parties.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, CHINA and CANADA stressed that sectoral approaches should support, not replace, national targets.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , expressed commitment to working towards early completion of the AWG-KP’s work to avoid a gap between commitment periods, while highlighting links between the two tracks.
Japan and Italy expressed concern with the tight schedule.
Both the EU and Chile, for the G-77/China, expressed concern over the timely implementation of the ITL, with the G-77/China adding that the ITL should be fully functional by the end of 2007.
MAURITANIA, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that lack of funding and support for inventory compilation and national communications significantly influenced accuracy of the data and the rate at which progress was being made.
The Gambia, for LDCs, favored a legally-binding agreement encompassing the Bali Action Plan, contingent on adoption of a ratifiable second commitment period.
South Africa agreed with the UK that countries should distribute a proposed national policy so that the COP could work with it.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for an “effective package in Cancún” and supported an environmentally-effective and legally-binding post-2012 regime that includes mitigation actions from all major economies and reflects a robust transparency framework.
China, Brazil and others stressed the need to avoid making the programme of work more complex than necessary by linking adaptation to mitigation.
IRELAND, ITALY, GERMANY and SLOVENIA stressed domestic action as the main means of meeting Protocol commitments.
On the issue of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Italy, for the EU, said developed countries must make a greater effort and developing countries must also take steps towards this end.
KUWAIT opposed the inclusion of air and ground transportation and highlighted CCS as a possible improvement to CDM, and, with SAUDI ARABIA, opposed sectoral crediting.
The G-77/China then presented alternative draft text, as did the Umbrella Group.
The EU, US, AUSTRALIA and AOSIS expressed disappointment over the lack of agreement and proposed that the draft conclusions include paragraphs on which there was some agreement.
INDONESIA, BENIN and DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO called for addressing the lack of sink projects under the CDM.
 CANADA, with the US and NORWAY, proposed including information on storage as well as capture when stating the percentages of global fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions that could be suitable for capture.
Bolivia, for ALBA, noted the need for balance among the multiple agenda items, and the pillars of mitigation, adaptation, MOI and capacity building.
JAPAN and AUSTRALIA highlighted information exchange on cross-sectoral issues.
 During the AWG 92s closing plenary on Saturday evening, 15 December, the G-77/China, EU, LDCs, SIDS, New Zealand, Switzerland and several others supported AWG Vice-Chair Bergh e4ll 92s proposal to approve the second option.
INDIA, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA and others opposed a new protocol.
Bangladesh, Tuvalu, Egypt and Guatemala said they had yet to be contacted by the COP President for consultations and noted that they should be inclusive, transparent and include all major groups.
The US supported the concept of the workshop but noted, with Belgium and Germany, budgetary concerns, particularly travel.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged Annex I countries to adopt ambitious targets.
  Commenting on this section in general, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bolivia, and China expressed concern that sustainable development was not emphasized enough and requested use of approved language from WGIII.
TUVALU, BOLIVIA and SWITZERLAND stressed incorporation of indigenous peoples in the deliberations.
With SAUDI ARABIA, BRAZIL, INDIA, BOLIVIA, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, EGYPT and SUDAN, she stressed that substantive discussions on other proposals to amend the Kyoto Protocol, contained in the Chair’s text, would be unacceptable and urged focusing the limited negotiating time on discussions under the numbers contact group.
On a sentence noting that  , e2 80 9cespecially in developing countries with low income, e2 80 9d India, Saudi Arabia, the Bahamas and others noted that vulnerability was not necessarily linked to income in developing countries.
The EU added that the small island States face a physical threat, whereas the OPEC countries face only economic adjustments like every other Party.
Switzerland, the US, Ireland and others felt that a proposed additional clause specifying that e2 80 9ca decrease of 0.1 in the pH of ocean surface water since the beginning of the industrial era corresponds to a 26% increase in hydrogen ion concentration e2 80 9d was too technical.
 SWITZERLAND, with the EU, called for a 93desk review 94 of non-Annex I communications and, supported by AOSIS, suggested grouping countries with common circumstances for such a review.
Saudi Arabia and Antigua and Barbuda, opposed by Mexico, Australia and Colombia, proposed that examination of options for new channels for observer organizations to provide inputs to the COP and COP/MOP be deferred to SBI 36 instead of SBI 35.
SWITZERLAND and the EU supported holding an expert meeting.
Sweden, for the EU, urged parties to increase their emission reduction commitments and identified the need for coordination with the AWG-LCA and for continuing discussions on enhancement of carbon markets and LULUCF rules.
The EU and Norway opposed categorical application of flexibility.
Canada, China, and the Russian Federation declared their intentions to ratify the Protocol during the WSSD and, since June 2002, an additional 22 Parties have ratified the Protocol.
Saudi Arabia and China, opposed by the US, Canada, the EU and Slovenia, suggested deleting reference to "all Parties" being assisted by good practice guidance in preparing higher-quality greenhouse gas inventories.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, underscored the importance of multilateral solutions and supported working through the IMO and ICAO while respecting the principles of the Convention and avoiding unilateral measures.
Colombia, for AILAC, Tuvalu, for the LDCs, the EU, NORWAY, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and others underlined the need for the new agreement to establish a compliance mechanism.
Germany and Kenya disagreed, deferring to the judgment of the Coordinating Lead Authors in assessing the scientific literature.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the EU, stressed the importance of the Secretariat also considering gaps and shortfalls in implementing the framework.
Mexico suggested that the authors consider producing a synthesis report for policy makers as part of the SR and, supported by China, Morocco and WG III Co-Chair Pichs Madruga, called for special attention to the regional balance of the case studies.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the LDCs, the PHILIPPINES and SRI LANKA expressed disappointment that parties could not reach agreement on how to address the impacts of climate change on agriculture, stressing agriculture’s importance to food security and livelihoods, and for eradicating poverty and hunger.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by GUATEMALA, expressed willingness to start negotiating immediately, irrespective of the label attached to the format.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for cost-effective and scalable mitigation actions, and emphasized the need to overcome barriers to implementation.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by SOLOMON ISLANDS and BRAZIL, and opposed by NEW ZEALAND, suggested parties could submit inputs for an information document.
The UK, Norway and Japan announced their intention to expand their financial contributions.
AUSTRALIA, the EU and JAPAN called for evidence of consequences, while the G-77/CHINA and others voiced concern with this proposal.
SOUTH AFRICA reported from G-77/China consultations and requested difficulties in attending parallel meetings be taken into account.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, said there should be coordination between international environmental agreements, but the process required careful consideration given the possible implications for industry.
He also said a separate EU proposal on financial issues had been presented and that, along with the proposal submitted by the Umbrella Group, there was substantial material on which to negotiate.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, stated that the focus of Item 3 is to make the commitments of Annex I Parties adequate, but noted that the AGBM must evaluate policies and measures of all Parties.
Australia drew attention to policy scientists while Hungary called for including bottom-up literature and alternative approaches.
SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA stressed the need to address both the impacts of climate change and of response measures.
China, opposed by Canada and Germany, proposed deleting reference to climate change being a global problem.
Parties also discussed the concept of national schedules of mitigation commitments and actions proposed by Australia, with India opposing it and Brazil noting that the concept, by combining a reference to commitments and actions, weakens commitments by developed countries.
The EU and Switzerland advocated an additional sentence on improving mutual understanding and learning.
CANADA and INDONESIA presented consolidated text on means of implementation resulting from informal consultations, highlighting funding options for public-based, market-based, and hybrid approaches.
The EU and the US supported Annex I and specifically noted paragraph 6, which requires the adoption of the budget by consensus, and suggested that the scale of contributions mentioned in paragraph 9 be more explicit.
The EU, with South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed working on the basis of the draft decisions contained in the SCF report.
TUVALU opposed the EU’s proposal to hold parallel sessions on the building blocks.
The US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand emphasized the importance of recognizing progress made under the AWG-LCA, including the various new institutional arrangements established.
Underlining that climate change is a historic consequence of capitalism in industrialized countries, Bolivia, for ALBA, said it is urgent to implement the WIM.
On text regarding atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases for the last 10,000 years, the UK, supported by Germany, noted that the draft figure on atmospheric concentrations  only depicts carbon dioxide levels over the last 10,000 years, and suggested that the accompanying text reflect the fact that the present carbon dioxide concentration exceeds by far the natural range over the last 650,000 years.
The UK, Spain and Germany supported including information on sea-level rise.
EL SALVADOR, speaking on behalf of Argentina, the Philippines, India, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Dominica, Bolivia, Cuba, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malaysia, Mali, Algeria, Iran, Kuwait, Sudan and Iraq, highlighted COP 18 as an important milestone for strengthening the multilateral climate regime under the principles of equity and CBDR.
Canada, followed by the US and Australia, suggested a strategic approach to developing the programme of work.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, stressed that the mandate must be based on the Bali building blocks, and said any political statement or declaration that leaves “open” the legal form is unacceptable.
PERU reported on an open-ended informal dialogue held on 20-22 March 2015, in Lima, Peru.
SAUDI ARABIA and the US, opposed by SWITZERLAND, highlighted provision for CO2 sequestration technologies.
  In the morning, Co-Chair Ure opened the contact group on potential consequences, noting that since the coordinators of the G-77/China and the EU were unable to attend the meeting, no substantive discussions would be undertaken.
Switzerland, with Ecuador, noted that mountainous areas are experiencing more global warming than low-lying areas and requested the inclusion of numbers behind a statement that warming is generally higher over land than over the ocean.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, called for a new text to be proposed by the COP President.
POLAND observed that a review of the process could explain why some countries were excluded and resolve some of the concerns of the G-77/CHINA.
Sierra Leone, Uganda and Timor-Leste highlighted country-specific circumstances.
Non-Annex I communications contact group: The contact group met to discuss proposed draft decisions submitted by the EU and the G-77/CHINA and to decide on ways to proceed in preparation for COP-5.
 Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized an approach based on key principles stated in the Convention and Protocol and said advancement of work under the AWG was an 93absolute imperative.
China and Iran emphasized the knowledge gap on the implementation of adaptation.
AUSTRALIA highlighted overlap with other chapters, said that the principles already exist in the Convention and, with CANADA, preferred to integrate capacity building into other chapters.
 AOSIS stressed that any post-2012 framework must build on the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol, and the EU emphasized the UNFCCC as the global framework for addressing climate change, including adaptation and mitigation.
Costa Rica, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , called for regular IPCC special reports as inputs to the global stocktake.
The EU and US highlighted the role of market mechanisms in mobilizing the US$100 billion of annual funding agreed in Copenhagen.
Spain, for the EU, suggested MRV of: how much support is provided; the purpose of support; channels through which the support is provided, whether bilateral or multilateral; and types of support such as grants or loans.
Noting problems regarding differences in interpretation, MOLDOVA, supported by FINLAND, CUBA, the NETHERLANDS, CZECH REPUBLIC and others, said the Synthesis Report must be short and concise.
The G-77/China, with Brazil, Samoa and Jamaica, and opposed by the US and Canada, said assigned amounts  were fixed.
Japan highlighted a workshop for CDM Designated National Authorities  and the EU drew attention to the informal DNA Forum held recently in Bonn.
Another challenge identified was coordination needs among difference government agencies in the cases presented from Myanmar and Japan.
BURKINA FASO, for the AFRICA GROUP, underscored the vulnerability of LDCs.
India stressed that determining CDM projects’ contribution to sustainable development should remain the host country’s prerogative, while Uganda proposed examining sustainability requirements and considering international criteria.
Switzerland, for the EIG, emphasized the need to leave Panama with clarity on the road ahead, and “a negotiating text in hand.” Venezuela, for ALBA, underscored achieving the objectives of the BAP and fulfilling legal obligations, without excuses or conditionalities.
Norway, supported by the US, the UK, China, Ireland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and Canada, urged delegates to respect the authors’ judgment on the levels of scientific understanding of these energy types, but Saudi Arabia noted that respect for the authors had not prevented delegates from making changes to the authors’ expressed opinions in other sections of the Refinement.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, expressed concern with slow progress in fulfilling the group’s mandate under Protocol Article 3.9 .
Non-governmental organizations  addressing the COP were: Foro del Buen Ayre; Global Legislators Organization for a Balanced Environment; the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions; the International Chamber of Commerce; the World Business Council for Sustainable Development; the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives; the Argentine Mayors\' Environmental Forum; Klima-B fcndnis ; Climate Action Network – Latin America; IUCN; the Business Council for Sustainable Energy; the European Business Council for a Sustainable Energy Future; Climate Network – Europe; and Franciscans International.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested the APA should discuss the modalities, procedures and guidelines on the biennial communications of indicative support by developed countries.
 Germany, on behalf of the European Union , stated the EU’s commitment to cut emissions by 30% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels if other developed countries follow suit and economically advanced developing countries “contribute adequately according to their responsibilities and respective capabilities.” She urged extending the carbon market, addressing emissions from international aviation and maritime transportation, and progress on the Adaptation Fund.
Japan and Australia highlighted information exchange on cross-sectoral issues.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, underscored the UNFCCC as the sole legitimate forum for these negotiations and denounced all means that would place the determination of the agreed outcome in Copenhagen in the hands of a few countries.
France and Germany favored its inclusion in AFOLU when used as a fertilizer for agriculture.
Indonesia took exception to Australia’s description of the demonstration activities, saying that these were only a small part of its master plan for the area.
NEW ZEALAND, the US, AUSTRALIA and the EU proposed deleting paragraphs on a e2 80 9cForum on Accelerated Implementation of Enhanced pre-2020 Climate Action.
The Philippines, supported by the Cook Islands and Japan, highlighted the linkages between assessments, adaptation and integration, and suggested that these should be reflected in a database on adaptation that should also include useful experiences of developing countries.
On the draft decision text on Article 5.2 for COP-6 and that for COP/MOP-1, SAUDI ARABIA, supported by TUVALU, PERU, CHINA and BRAZIL, and opposed by the US and NEW ZEALAND, suggested deleting references to activities under Protocol Article 3.3 and 3.4 at this stage, as outstanding issues are being considered in the LULUCF group.
Barbados, for AOSIS, suggested that work on long-term finance should focus on: scaling up finance; improving access to finance for developing countries; and ensuring a balance between adaptation and mitigation activities.
GRENADA reported on an informal ministerial meeting co-hosted by Grenada and Mexico in November with 42 AOSIS and non-AOSIS participants.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, expressed hope for progress on the CER registry’s transparency, double counting and CDM loan schemes.
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations at 450 ppm.
On carry-over  restrictions on Kyoto units, UKRAINE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and others supported no restrictions on banking beyond the second commitment period, while the LDCs, AOSIS, SUDAN and others preferred extending current restrictions to the subsequent commitment periods.
On a paragraph encouraging parties to the Kyoto Protocol to ratify and implement its Doha Amendment, Cuba and Viet Nam, opposed by Belarus and Ukraine, called for “urging” instead of “encouraging” parties.
With JAPAN and CANADA, she said the enforcement branch should be able to impose facilitative consequences.
The Gambia, for LDCs, urged those Annex I parties that have not done so to submit their QELROs.
No agreement was reached by the time the SBI closing plenary was held on 11 December, when Canada, the EU and the G-77/China expressed disappointment at the outcome.
TAJIKISTAN, supported by BHUTAN, stressed the need to reflect needs of mountainous, landlocked developing countries.
Noting that LDCs have made progress in National Adaptation Programmes of Action, Angola, for the LDCs, stressed the LEG’s role in providing support and lamented lack of finance in the LDCs Fund.
Delegates discussed the timing of a review, and MOROCCO, supported by NIGERIA, called for the establishment of a working group to consider the issue.
IRAN, supported by EGYPT, requested that the Secretariat make an attributed version of the new text available, while VENEZUELA and COLOMBIA opposed.
In informal consultations, parties discussed a draft text put forward by Costa Rica, for AILAC, based on informal informal consultations, which, inter alia, extended the Lima work programme on gender.
CUBA, INDIA, TANZANIA, INDONESIA and others urged addressing intellectual property rights .
The G-77/ China supported the EU 92s principles on additionality and said it should be considered on a project-by-project basis.
On review of INDCs, South Africa, Colombia, Nauru, for AOSIS, and Tonga highlighted the importance of an assessment process.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, favored adopting a mandatory approach, under which the new legal instrument would require certain common and coordinated P&amp;Ms.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA and BRAZIL, proposed convening the workshop immediately prior to COP-5’s opening, to ensure stronger developing country participation.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, said continuity of the Kyoto Protocol is a condition for any agreement under the AWG-LCA, noting the need to keep the two negotiating tracks separate.
Regarding the sub-item on submission of second and third national communications, the G-77/China objected to the reference to the "frequency of" submissions and, with Saudi Arabia, stressed the importance of financial and technical support for preparing national communications before addressing the issue of their timing.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to update a technical paper on mitigation benefits of actions, and develop a synthesis on thematic areas relating to mitigation opportunities and options for cooperation and accelerated action, Brazil suggested referring to “mitigation potential, opportunities, options and instruments.” Colombia, for AILAC, requested that a synthesis be “compiled into a summary and presented at the annual high-level forum.” AOSIS proposed disseminating the summary through a “web-based menu on policy options.”
The Russian Federation, Ukraine and Belarus opposed removing the special status of economies in transition from proposed amendments of Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol.
HONDURAS, SURINAME, COLOMBIA, BRAZIL, TUVALU, GUATEMALA, the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, GUYANA and PAKISTAN supported the proposal.
  Co-facilitator Andrea Guerrero facilitated discussions, which focused on three clustering proposals from: the G-77/China; the EU; and Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and the US.
 PORTUGAL, HUNGARY, UZBEKISTAN, GEORGIA, CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, EGYPT, BANGLADESH, PAKISTAN, MEXICO, BENIN, MAURITIUS, MOROCCO and NEPAL reported on the effects of climate change on their country and national efforts to address the problem.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed a new paragraph as an alternative option.
Egypt, supported by Saint Lucia, the Maldives, and Trinidad and Tobago, called for a stronger emphasis on the impacts on natural systems.
In these discussions, the Umbrella Group, Switzerland and Ukraine called for a comprehensive review of the Protocol.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for balanced progress on all items, no reinterpretation of the Convention, and “no artificial separation between technical and political.” He stressed as important, inter alia: pre-2020 action and ambition; progress in finance-related items; a decision that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement; advancing on adaptation communicaton guidance; and time allocated to equity under the GST.
JAPAN said that it would consider the ideas contained in the U.S. non-paper and supported the timetable for work suggested by Switzerland.
BHUTAN and BANGLADESH called for special attention to LDCs 92 needs.
Emphasizing the need to address a variety of actions by all parties in the 2015 agreement, the EU, SWITZERLAND and the US, opposed language applying only to developed countries.
Australia, on behalf of the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed the need for continued progress on reform of the CDM and technical issues under REDD+ in order for SBSTA to absorb the work of the AWGs “when their mandate ends.”
On technology, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CANADA observed that the proposed technology executive committee  should be under the SBSTA.
On the general structure, several countries, including Australia and Italy, noted the need for further rationalization of the outline.
Some looked to the big players, namely China and the EU, to carry on the torch of climate action.
IRAN, for the G-77/ CHINA, underscored its approach of "principled flexibility," and stated that neither COP-7 nor the WSSD was the appropriate forum for raising the issue of new commitments for developing countries.
12), which was presented by Germany and supported by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, the Gambia, Greece, Spain, Sweden and the Netherlands, was discussed in plenary on Friday.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, stressed the need for comparable numbers and supported a five-year commitment period, which would allow the process to respond to emerging science and to deepen commitments before 2020.
SAUDI ARABIA, with ALGERIA, CHINA and OMAN, opposed “cherry-picking” elements of the Protocol and “killing it.”
Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed extreme disappointment with the lack of progress.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and ICELAND, but opposed by BOLIVIA and BRAZIL, suggested having more time dedicated to discussing the overlap between LULUCF and the numbers, and proposed a joint session of the numbers and LULUCF groups.
BRAZIL, supported by SINGAPORE and the US, said a reference to sustainable development should remain in the paragraph.
On  , Saint Lucia, supported by Bolivia, Brazil, Senegal, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Argentina, Cuba, Zambia and China, proposed focusing on conditionalities set by Annex I parties that are interested in a second commitment period, while taking note of those parties that are not.
AUSTRALIA and the US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA and SAMOA, said the information to be compiled by the Secretariat should be based exclusively on information supplied in the national communications.
CANADA, INDIA and others highlighted that discussions should be transparent.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized equal treatment of adaptation and mitigation, and the special needs of Africa, SIDS and the LDCs.
China, with Brazil, Chile, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Venezuela, and opposed by Australia, Canada, Japan, the US and New Zealand, argued that the mandate of the enforcement body should include Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14 .
Saint Lucia, Algeria, Tuvalu, Brazil, China, India and Bolivia underscored that access to the flexibility mechanisms, including Joint Implementation and the CDM, would be difficult to agree to in the absence of a second commitment period.
Brazil, Panama, India, the EU, Norway and others identified the UNFCCC as the appropriate forum for bunker fuel decision-making.
Australia, Poland, the US, the EU and other Annex I Parties expressed reservations on a paragraph inviting Annex I Parties to provide information on, inter alia, existing market imperfections and subsidies in the energy sector.
PERU, BRAZIL and PAPUA NEW GUINEA stressed the need to preserve the integrity of the Protocol and the importance of emissions reductions in Annex I countries.
The EU, supported by NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, said it would be a better use of delegates’ time to establish spin-off groups to allow technical experts to discuss the rules while continuing political discussions.
Turkey and Mexico suggested a framework should support implementation at the national and regional levels and allow for coordination at the different levels of government.
The G-77/China said the US proposal does not address the problems with the current financial mechanism.
The EU suggested that discussions on LDCs should take into account deliberations on decision 5/CP.7, in order to avoid duplication.
Egypt, for the G-77/China, with China and Ecuador, regretted the lack of consensus on this item.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, requested time to consult, noting the group’s surprise that the second document contained bridging proposals embedded within the compilation text.
The meeting brought together representatives from 17 major developed and developing economies, plus representatives of Colombia, New Zealand, Singapore and Spain, to discuss the road forward on climate change, and partnerships and regional agreements on clean energy and climate.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, with the UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
Calling for a focus on LDCs, SIDS and the most vulnerable countries, BANGLADESH said existing arrangements for delivery were insufficient.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, noted possible convergence on some issues.
On guidelines for implementation of Article 6, SAMOA and the G-77/CHINA expressed concern with the early start of projects and their eligibility for ERUs as of 2008.
China and Saudi Arabia expressed concern that a facilitative dialogue could represent an ex ante review and opposed this.
Morocco and Spain suggested consideration of “grey” literature at the subregional level and in various languages, and Belarus called for practical mechanisms to include non-English literature.
The representatives of the Asian Group presented nominations from Kuwait and the Philippines, but had not agreed which representative would serve as Rapporteur and which as Vice-President.
The EU, AOSIS and GHANA underscored the importance of the Special Climate Change Fund, especially to countries not eligible for support under existing funds.
Grenada, for AOSIS, emphasized the need for discussion regarding the share of proceeds for adaptation under the AWG-KP, maintaining that few changes are needed to the rules governing the flexible mechanisms and LULUCF.
The UK, with Belgium, Luxembourg, Japan, Norway, Spain, Ireland, Sweden, Congo and others, called for clear reference in chapter two on mitigation pathways to a warming of 2     c2 b0C for comparison purposes.
The G-77/CHINA, MEXICO, SOUTH AFRICA and COLOMBIA drew linkages with mitigation and MOI.
 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said that the SBSTA could request the IPCC to evaluate impacts and global warming potentials.
Venezuela, on behalf of the G-77/China, expressed disappointment at the lack of substantive progress regarding preparations for a workshop.
He also noted that paragraphs proposed by a number of Parties including Norway, Iceland, New Zealand and Switzerland could be integrated into the EU proposal.
Cyprus, for the EU, on climate finance, said the EU will continue to provide support after 2012 and will work to scale up finance towards 2020.
The NETHERLANDS, with MEXICO, noted the need for overlap between the Working Group and Synthesis Report writing processes to allow re-examination by Working Groups of any inconsistencies identified by the Synthesis Report process.
The EU and the Umbrella Group supported an eight-year second commitment period, with the EU highlighting its internal legislation already in force for 2013-2020.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted the imperative for accelerating progress under the AWG-KP and the need for focusing on efficient institutions and robust carbon markets.
IPCC Chair Lee suggested a small group, including the US, Brazil, the UK, Germany, Zambia and other interested members, to meet with IPCC Vice-Chair Sokona to revise the draft decision.
Several parties, including Japan, Tuvalu and Slovenia, for the EU, identified the need to address international aviation and maritime transport emissions.
Supporting Tuvalu, Brazil said that if activities under Article 3.4  were expanded, the IPCC should be invited to re-assess the issue of “factoring out” to enhance understanding of anthropogenic versus natural carbon stock changes.
Uganda, for the Least Developed Countries , lamented that their proposals had not been clearly reflected in the text, with GABON noting that the overall picture seemed to be lost.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, questioned the inclusion on the agenda of the biannual budget for 2018-2019, given SBI 46 agreed to a draft decision.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored that all developing countries face the negative consequences of response measures, including those affecting trade.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, proposed holding the workshop well in advance of COP-5 to ensure that participants will have time to fully benefit from the discussions.
Draft text under the Protocol received a generally positive response, although the G-77/China asked that regional imbalances of CDM projects be further highlighted and the Cook Islands asked for reference to the special needs of LDCs and SIDS in the preamble.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, also addressed the issue of differentiation and flexibility, the AFRICAN GROUP, the need for more discussions on national capacities, and NEW ZEALAND, the need to preserve the facilitative nature of the mechanism.
Some delegations, including CANADA, JAPAN and the US supported continuing discussions informally.
Canada, Norway, the EU and Switzerland, opposed by many developing countries and LDCs, suggested deleting the text and said that more time is needed to develop the criteria for the LDC Fund before projects can be financed.
BELGIUM presented his country’s target to reduce emissions from sectors covered by the EU ETS by 15% compared to 2005 levels in the context of the EU’s 2020 climate and energy package.
Pakistan and South Africa called for treating all elements of Decision 1/CP.17 “in a balanced manner.” Mexico and Saudi Arabia stressed the equal importance of adaptation and mitigation.
On adaptation, SPAIN and ALGERIA noted consultations on the establishment of an adaptation committee, facilitation of access to the fund, an international mechanism to address loss and damage, as well as consolidation of regional centers.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS concurred with this and, supported by ECUADOR, suggested requesting the governing bodies of international organizations to give a high priority to work in support of the FCCC process.
On  the African Group, AOSIS, and Brazil offered proposals and presentations.
SWITZERLAND said that the existing information units of the Secretariat and UNEP should be used to further the work under Article 6 and, with the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and IRAN, called upon the IPCC to provide reports in languages other than English.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, said that they do not wish to renegotiate either the Marrakesh Accords or the Protocol, but that in order to achieve the Convention’s ultimate objective of avoiding dangerous climate change, parties have “every reason to move forward and not get stuck in history.”
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to learn from the Kyoto Protocol’s flexibility mechanisms and avoid undermining the current trading system.
BANGLADESH, SIERRA LEONE, TIMOR-LESTE, the MALDIVES, TANZANIA and others stressed capacity building.
France, on behalf of the EU, stated that Annex I countries should take the lead on reduction commitments, and called for a global market with liquidity, clear price signals, and cost effective means to reduce emissions.
Austria, with Spain, the UK, Italy, Brazil and China, proposed deleting reference to e2 80 9cfuture e2 80 9d before cumulative CO2 emissions, noting cumulative emissions represent the past and present as well.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said based on IPCC projections of atmospheric CO2 stabilization levels and temperature increase, a level of 550 parts per million should guide limitation and reduction efforts.
NORWAY, the EU and SWITZERLAND commended the consolidations as useful while noting that, wherever new language is introduced, they reserve the right to come back to text.
Antigua and Barbuda, on behalf of the G-77/China, said that discussions in Accra had been more productive than at earlier sessions and expressed hope that parties would build on this momentum.
The EU, Canada and the US disagreed, opposed by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with including finance in the INDCs, noting this issue will not be resolved in Lima.
Australia, supported by Switzerland, Japan, Norway and New Zealand, and opposed by the LDCs, suggested replacing “on the basis of” with “by furthering the consideration of” Annex I, and, supported by the LDCs and opposed by the LMDCs and Brazil, including reference to the ADP preparing “any related decisions.” Switzerland and Norway proposed adding “without prejudice to” the “structure” or “content” of the final outcome.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, the EU and the Umbrella Group, welcomed the FSV as well as the ToR for the PCCB.
ITALY, on behalf of the EU, said the IPCC should continue as the primary body providing independent assessments, reviewing published literature and developing methodologies and guidelines.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, rejected attempts to marginalize the Kyoto Protocol.
Stressing that parties must “pick up the pace,” Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment that some parties insist on working outside the mandate of the Paris Agreement.
The procedural compromise was that the proposals of the G-77 and China, the EU and the US will be transmitted to the COP for further consideration.
AOSIS, the AFRICAN GROUP, TANZANIA, and INDIA called for extension of funding for adaptation from other mechanisms.
The two key bodies under the Bali Roadmap are the AWG-LCA and the AWG-KP, which held four negotiation sessions in 2008: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznán, Poland.
BRAZIL, opposed by AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported distinguishing between facilitation available to Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
The other officers come from Burkina Faso, Chile, Germany, Morocco, Qatar, the Russian Federation and Tuvalu.
 Jamaica, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed international action on climate change and its linkages with the Millennium Development Goals .
South Africa, for BASIC, stressed that the ADP outcome should be in full accordance with all the Convention principles, particularly CBDR and equity.
In the afternoon, on taking stock of progress made by the subsidiary and constituted bodies, SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA and TUVALU, proposed consideration of modalities of biennial communications of indicative support.
China suggested language reflecting that international cooperation “is critical” for enabling conditions for implementation and, supported by India, stressed its importance for domestic implementation.
In the closing plenary, South Africa and Tuvalu, for AOSIS, stressed the importance of this issue, with AOSIS identifying it as a step towards innovative funding for adaptation.
SAUDI ARABIA, with OMAN, pointed to carbon sequestration as an option to offset emissions from fossil fuel use.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for outcomes on: using certified emission reductions from CDM project activities in LDCs, SIDS and Africa; extending the share of proceeds levy to AAUs and removal units; and increasing the share of proceeds from the mechanisms.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that the core mandate of the ongoing negotiations is to define ambitious quantified emission reduction targets for future commitment periods.
With the Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, she said that the disbursement of funds should be science-based and should not be counted towards ODA.
NEW ZEALAND, with CANADA and AUSTRALIA, proposed including text on the relationship between implementation of activities and other international agreements in the preamble.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted the need for adequate financing to cover all stages of the technology development cycle, and for options to manage intellectual property rights , such as exemptions from patenting.
 Thailand, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that adaptation, including mitigation co-benefits, continues to be the key priority for developing countries.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/ CHINA, outlined its principles for LULUCF, including that agreed-upon Annex I LULUCF activities should not change the global effect of the Protocol.
BANGLADESH requested text identifying a preference in financing for LDCs and SIDS.
JAPAN, the EU, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NEW ZEALAND underscored action resulting in real and meaningful benefits.
On Tuesday, 26 October, the contact group discussed proposals submitted by the EU and the G-77/China.
On actions necessary to meet needs and concerns of developing countries, the US and the EU proposed following FCCC Article 4.8 on "consideration" of actions necessary and on "funding, insurance and the transfer of technology."
Many developing countries stressed their opposition to any “rewriting or re-negotiation of Convention’s principles,” with China, opposed by the US and others, suggesting that the CBDR principle should guide the ADP’s work.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, suggested that the draft operational strategy focus on adaptation measures in light of Decision 11 of COP 1.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, noted missing elements from the Chair’s outcome note and called for working on the basis of the August negotiating text.
 Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Spain and others proposed, and  WGIII agreed to, a sentence linked to the WGII report indicating that irrespective of mitigation, adaptation will be necessary.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said a shared vision should provide a framework for cooperation among all parties, and include a long-term climate objective and ways and means to reach it.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, looked forward to the synthesis report capturing discussions.
He supported the ideas expressed by India and Germany and added that the second IPCC assessment will provide valuable scientific insights and that the Secretariat could facilitate the sharing of relevant information.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the need to strike an appropriate balance bearing in mind that the process is party-driven.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the discussions should only address the specific agenda sub-items.
PANAMA noted that his country 92s biodiversity is being effected by climate change, while BHUTAN underscored the vulnerability of its fragile mountain ecosystem.
On “committed warming” , China, with the Netherlands, Morocco and others, objected to the wording “committed” given the potential for misinterpretation.
AUSTRALIA, with SWITZERLAND, said that inclusion of specific gases should be based on the principle of maximum coverage.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, expressed concern over slow progress on finance-related issues, and called for more time to consider items 3 and 5.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called COP 22 an “implementation and action COP.”
The US, supported by JAPAN, proposed informal discussions in a spin-off group, with progress captured in reflection notes.
  Tuvalu, for the LDCs, proposed a legally-binding agreement and a system based on two annexes, including the possibility of making amendments for parties to increase their level of mitigation ambition through COP decisions.
Tuvalu expressed “extreme disappointment” with lack of progress under the AWG-KP and, opposed by India, urged consideration of parties’ proposals for Protocol amendments as “a lifeboat for a sinking process.” South Africa, for the G-77/China, supported by India, the Philippines, China, Algeria, for the African Group, Oman and Zambia, requested further time to resolve outstanding technical issues in the AWG-KP’s text.
Switzerland highlighted his country’s proposal for a uniform global levy of US$2 per tonne of CO2, except on the LDCs.
The G-77/CHINA suggested compiling an options paper on modalities for accounting, reporting and review aspects, while the EU, CANADA and JAPAN preferred integrating these issues into the other options papers.
ICELAND, URUGUAY, CANADA, MEXICO, COSTA RICA and NEW ZEALAND supported the US’s concern that Option C refers to only a limited number of activities that can contribute to sinks.
On the supplementarity section of the text, BRAZIL, supported by PERU and opposed by JAPAN and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed specifying a cap of 30% on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
New candidates were nominated by Chad and Finland.
Laos and Jamaica will become Parties in early April and may participate in discussions, but do not have a vote.
On agriculture, yield and food insecurity, Egypt and Niger proposed, and WGII agreed, to add reference to semi-arid areas.
He indicated his willingness to consider Iran 92s list of proposals for action, but said Japan cannot accept the idea of compensation.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of participation by non-party stakeholders from all sectors.
BANGLADESH highlighted the high cost of operationalizing CDM projects, including the registration fee and validation by a Designated Operational Entity, calling for exemptions for LDCs.
Chile, for AILAC, among others, supported the principle of e2 80 9cno backsliding.
The LDCs, the G-77/CHINA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, JAPAN and others supported retaining text on improving access to CDM projects by specified host parties, while the EU preferred taking no decision.
MEXICO, the EU, CHILE, TUVALU and NORWAY supported continuing workstream 2 after 2015.
Cook Islands and Tuvalu advocated for an IPCC report on SIDS’ adaptation.
Peru, supported by Brazil and Canada, expressed support for maintaining the current structure.
JAPAN, opposed by CHINA, suggested that triggering against another Party could be limited to the facilitative branch.
Bangladesh urged a focus on proposals that highlight the needs of LDCs and SIDS.
GERMANY, supported by AUSTRALIA, stated that close cooperation between the IPCC and SBSTA was crucial, stressing the need to maintain a clear division of labor between them.
AOSIS proposed an economic report on climate impacts on SIDS and, with the LDCs, an adaptation fund under the Convention.
Costa Rica, Papua New Guinea, Grenada, for AOSIS, the Gambia, for the African Group, Colombia, Guatemala, Lesotho, for the LDCs, and Australia supported the proposal to establish a “friends of the chair” group.
The Philippines, with Bolivia, Venezuela and others, requested retaining reference to the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Kenya, for the Africa Group, pressed for simplified CDM modalities and urgent action on technology transfer and adaptation.
India, China and others stressed the importance of flexibility in selecting a starting date or period for reference emissions.
IRAN, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about the conditionality of GEF funding.
Norway and Ireland expressed trust that negative emissions would be addressed and supported the text as proposed by Chair Krug.
The Gambia, for the African Group, underscored the need for data from Annex I countries to better understand the gap between their pledges and science.
The G-77/CHINA emphasized a top-down approach, with INDIA noting that it was needed in the absence of adequate pledges.
 On preparations, AOSIS, the EU, CANADA, TANZANIA and NEW ZEALAND supported coordination with other processes, including the AWG.
Bolivia, for the G-77/China, noted the important work of the Adaptation Fund.
Parties discussed textual proposals from AOSIS, the African Group, Brazil, Australia, the EU and Brazil, which were compiled into a non-paper.
Argentina called for allowing countries to decide themselves what support they need and, with Uganda, suggested a simple institutional framework.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the complexity of assessing the comparability of Annex I countries’ mitigation efforts.
JAPAN highlighted the use of existing funds, and the EU underscored the need to build on existing institutions.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that a shared vision should address all elements of the Bali Action Plan.
 Cameroon, for the CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, and others, stressed that measures to reduce emissions from deforestation in developing countries should account for local, national, and regional specificity.
Japan and the Russian Federation, opposed by several developing countries, urged inserting a reference to cooperation with the AWG-LCA in the conclusions.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, warned against transferring issues from the AWG-LCA to the SBs and said specific issues mandated for consideration by the SBI in Decision 1/CP.16 must feed into a balanced outcome from the AWG-LCA.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, requested a placeholder for the definition of “climate finance.” Bolivia proposed defining a mechanism for the implementation of joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral sustainable management of forests as an alternative to REDD+.
INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA identified consensus as the paramount principle that has produced the UNFCCC, Kyoto Protocol, Marrakesh Accords and the Bali Action Plan, and said it must be preserved.
Several, including the EU, SAUDI ARABIA and NEW ZEALAND, supported ensuring the document is not renegotiated in the APA contact group.
VENEZUELA, also for Paraguay, expressed concern with the proposals that contradict the Convention, such as national schedules, and proposed deletion of the reporting template.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, identified three levels of action: by developed and developing countries respectively, and cooperation between the two.
 Germany, with support from many countries and Greenpeace, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, suggested the IPCC consider preparing a special report on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
Nauru, for AOSIS stated that: the long-term global goal should be a key research area discussed during the SBSTA research dialogue and that the focus should be on vulnerable developing countries.
With SWITZERLAND and INDIA, he suggested further work on definitions.
SWITZERLAND, supported by BELIZE, said paragraph 84 should be grouped with paragraphs on transparency.
New Zealand, Mauritius and Egypt called for the deletion of Alternative A, paragraph  on decisions under paragraph 3 of Article 4 and paragraphs 1, 3 or 4 of Article 11, which shall be taken by consensus.
NEW ZEALAND and CANADA indicated that the EU’s experiences in forming the “bubble” and defining the new voluntary target could be useful.
On the scope of the workshop, Papua New Guinea proposed the workshop focus only on policy approaches and positive incentives, while the EU, Japan, Tuvalu and others preferred also addressing technical and methodological matters.
INDIA, with GUYANA, SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA, highlighted the importance of identifying activities and actions that would qualify for REDD-plus before addressing principles.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND and others supported considering proposed new mechanisms, but also underscored the importance of discussions on the existing mechanisms.
The G-77/CHINA looked forward to progress on adaptation implementation, positive incentives on reducing deforestation, adaptation research, and the Mauritius Strategy.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, proposed adding language on “25-40% greenhouse gas emissions reductions below 1990 levels” for Annex I parties.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted three key issues: ambition and the need for information on the ambition gap; clarification of ambition; and common accounting rules.
Adaptation was also taken up during ministerial consultations facilitated by Spain and Algeria.
On action on adaptation, Bolivia, for the G-77/China, and Iran called for recognizing that adaptation is country-specific.
Canada, supported by the US, preferred deciding that the ADP “should aim to” prepare a negotiating text instead of “shall.” This was opposed by the LDCs, who cautioned against “slippage in timing.”
The US, MEXICO and GEORGIA supported the proposal.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and ETHIOPIA preferred retaining text on multiplication factors, and the EU said discounting should be seen in the wider context of, inter alia, benchmarks, and retained on the table.
Bolivia, supported by India, said he was not able to support the proposal to forward a very specific, “mitigation-centric” issue for further discussion by the SBI.
 On a paragraph stating that the impact of climate change in forests cannot be predicted with confidence, Tuvalu, with Belgium and Germany, opposed by Australia and the US, recalled statements from the WGII SPM and underlying chapters that refer to carbon uptake peaking and then declining this century.
SWITZERLAND, NEW ZEALAND and the EU supported the mode of work presented by the Co-Chairs.
 Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, highlighted IPCC AR4 and called for urgent action.
Australia, New Zealand and Canada, however, sought greater flexibility for LULUCF in the second commitment period.
ALGERIA, ZAMBIA, SENEGAL, BENIN and others urged considering distribution of CDM projects and methodological issues.
TUVALU, for the LDCs, called for parallel cycles for mitigation and means of implementation.
On leakage, Japan, supported by Canada and India, but opposed by AOSIS, Brazil and the EU, preferred exempting leakage due to high monitoring costs and the fact that major impacts were unlikely, given the projects 92 small size.
Venezuela, with Brazil and Bolivia, underscored that the CDM cannot function outside of the context of QELROs and, therefore, without a second commitment period.
Highlighting sub-paragraphs 1 and 1 of the BAP on mitigation by developed and developing countries, BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, stressed the need for a balanced consideration of issues.
Cambodia and Tanzania urged mechanisms that benefit LDCs.
Saudi Arabia and the US argued that the figure and caption were too complex and “full of jargon.”
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the need to: address issues around “operability” and eligibility for access to flexibility mechanisms in order to deliver a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period; recognize substantial outcomes achieved in Cancun and Durban; focus on areas of convergence to finalize any remaining work in the AWG-LCA; and capture ADP discussions in a text to send a signal that the ADP is on track.
 France, supported by Belgium, proposed that measurements in gigatonnes of carbon  be accompanied by conversions into gigatonnes of carbon dioxide .
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND disagreed with the EU proposal to delete language stating that issues not covered in the special report will be included in the TAR.
GHANA, with THAILAND, highlighted REDD as an adaptation strategy cutting across the four building blocks.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, IRAN and VENEZUELA, he requested an additional item on methodological issues related to Articles 4.8 and 4.9 .
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted that the G-77/CHINA proposal intends to contribute towards assessing the progress towards the 2020 finance objective.
New Zealand and Denmark suggested lack of expertise as a challenge to projections.
Colombia, for AILAC, suggested regional TEMs.
 Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the Convention and Protocol should remain the central multilateral platform for addressing action on climate change and cautioned against erosion or replacement with a less equitable post-2012 arrangement.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with CROATIA, said spillover effects on all parties, particularly developing country parties, should be considered.
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the US and JAPAN, stressed that Parties had a right to use the mechanisms until a breach had been identified through the review process.
 The Fiji/Bonn Climate Change Conference convened from 6-17 November 2017 in Bonn, Germany, under the COP Presidency of Fiji.
Spain, for the EU, with JAPAN, preferred joint SBI/SBSTA conclusions.
AUSTRALIA and the EU highlighted positive news reports on plans for national mitigation actions in developing countries and encouraged them to spell out their goals.
On adaptation , Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, asked to include details on a long-term vision and urged avoiding prescriptive language.
COSTA RICA asked how equity among developing countries will be addressed in the future, underscoring that she would like to see countries like China, Brazil and India making more efforts to combat climate change.
France, on behalf of the EU, accepted this compromise, and added a footnote to paragraph 2 that a reference to communications include regional economic integration organizations included in the Convention.
The UK, with France, noted a lack of balance between this sentence and a subsequent one addressing the trend of increased sea ice extent around Antarctica, stressing that what is happening in the Arctic is graver than in Antarctica, and proposed drawing more on the WGI SPM and quantifying the issue of sea ice in the two regions.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and SOUTH AFRICA called for transforming the outputs of the TEMs into implementation on the ground.
The US, Canada, India and others objected to EU-proposed text addressing climate change and sea-level rise in the context of the Millennium Review in September 2005.
Switzerland, on behalf of the EIG, said a future agreement must be legally-binding, have global application, recognize differentiation and contain comparable and transparent targets.
Emphasizing the need to catalyze climate action and “domesticate it in our jurisdictions,” Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for clear timelines for future work.
The EU, Japan, Australia and Canada urged holding joint sessions with the AWG-LCA on Annex I parties’ aggregate emission reductions, noting the difficulty in discussing these numbers in the absence of some major emitting countries.
On paragraph 7, the EU, opposed by South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed replacing reference to “the assessment of consequences of tools, policies, measures and methodologies available to Annex I Parties” with “the assessment of consequences of mitigation actions taken by Parties.” Both options remain in the text.
CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and SWITZERLAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, preferred to consider adaptation and mitigation under one agenda item.
 The Maldives, for AOSIS, and the EU proposed acknowledging that climate change requires the widest possible cooperation.
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , stressed financial issues as central to the success of COP 20, urging greater predictability and clarity on the mobilization by developed countries of US$100 billion per year by 2020.
Supported by Bolivia, she requested adding a footnote to the agenda to indicate that: “the implementation of Decision 1/CP.17 should be examined on the basis of its compliance with international law, in accordance with the principle of pacta sunt servanda  and, in particular, with the  exception on non-performance  related to the full respect and compliance with the UNFCCC and its Kyoto Protocol, for the parties that are parties of those instruments.” Venezuela stressed that the footnote is “indispensable” for her country’s support for the adoption of the agenda.
Colombia, for AILAC, urged utilizing the best available science and emphasized the importance of long-term low-emission development strategies in orienting the NDCs towards the Agreement’s goals.
Guatemala, for AILAC emphasized: the need to further progress work on the GST; the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue as highly relevant for achieving the trajectory demanded by the science; and transparency of action and transparency of support are pillars of trust among parties.
Other countries, including AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND, NORWAY, the US and JAPAN, said the shared vision should be based on the two issues mandated from Cancun, i.e., the long-term global goal and the peak year.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more discussion time at the Forum.
Brazil, with Saudi Arabia and Bolivia, highlighted the need to address adequacy of Annex I countries’ pledges in relation to historical responsibility and level of ambition in the mid- and long-term.
Brazil, supported by Belgium, Germany, and the Marshall Islands, proposed retaining the text, noting that it specifies the scope of coverage.
Jamaica, supported by Sudan, the Philippines, Vanuatu and Zambia, called on the CMP to facilitate mobilization of additional funds during CMP 8.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, said success in Durban depends on achieving balanced results based on the Convention’s principles, including common but differentiated responsibilities.
Tuvalu, for LDCs, called for an amendment to the Kyoto Protocol that would be ratifiable and provisionally enter into force to avoid a gap.
Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed mandating an action platform and a regular meeting of representatives of the Convention bodies.
CHINA and MALAYSIA recommended combining paragraphs on resource allocation and requests for support to the EGTT.
NICARAGUA and BOLIVIA called for Mother Earth to be reinserted in the text.
The EU opposed the additional text proposed by the US.
INDIA, with AOSIS, suggested widening the scope to include an assessment of adequacy of mitigation efforts by Annex I countries in accordance with the latest available scientific literature, and PAKISTAN suggested that the paper should analyze whether these numbers are consistent with a 2ºC scenario.
BRAZIL urged using the allocated time effectively, and with INDONESIA, stressed that the issue of “numbers” is the benchmark for success in Barcelona.
The US, EU and LDCs also suggested that the text on thematic areas could be further elaborated.
Ireland presented on his country’s share of the EU’s pledge.
SAUDI ARABIA urged full transparency and participation at COP-6, and INDONESIA called for full participation of developing countries before and during COP-6.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, called for the adoption of an agreement that is applicable to all, includes a flexible approach to differentiation, and has common rules and a mechanism to increase ambition over time.
South Africa, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and the Netherlands noted that tourism is best captured under chapters on buildings, land use and transport sectors.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, emphasized the importance of addressing adaptation, and loss and damage.
Venezuela supported Saudi Arabia’s proposal on preparing a special report on socioeconomic impacts of mitigation in developing countries.
He explained that the bulb was designed in the Netherlands, engineered and produced in India, and costs US$ 24, highlighting the high price as an example of why R&amp;D is crucial to make climate-friendly technologies affordable.
Iceland stressed the need to reflect gender considerations and Bolivia highlighted indigenous peoples.
 On the same sentence, which noted that emissions would continue to grow without additional mitigation “and/or” sustainable development policies, Germany, supported by Australia, France, Slovenia, Norway and others, said that “and/or” was misleading since sustainable development policies alone cannot stop emissions from growing and, opposed by China and India, proposed deleting the text.
Noting that the IPCC ef bf bds terms of reference have served the organization well, AUSTRALIA, with support from SWITZERLAND, the UK, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, PERU, and others suggested that a short-term review by a small team working with the IPCC Chair might be suitable.
Gabon, Saudi Arabia, India and Ecuador reiterated the need to treat paragraphs 1 and 1 of the BAP separately.
Country representatives highlighted: the US$27 billion Dubai Green Fund; Hungary’s support to partner countries’ NDC implementation; and Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050 and a new US$50 million contribution to the Adaptation Fund.
SWITZERLAND, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported the following consequences: a compliance action plan, restrictions on the use of mechanisms, and a compliance fund.
 Italy, supported by Poland, said he was impressed by the Chair"s suggestion, and that Article 8.3 of the Convention says COP-1 should designate a Permanent Secretariat.
CHINA, INDONESIA and INDIA urged faster progress on new Annex I emissions targets.
BOLIVIA, VENEZUELA, SINGAPORE, SUDAN and BRAZIL opposed “broader discussions.” AUSTRALIA emphasized that no single group of countries is able to deliver the level of ambition necessary to address climate change and that if ambitions were to be hardened down to specific numbers, a broader discussion would be the next step.
BOTSWANA, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed an amendment to the conclusions to reaffirm the need for a work programme, taking into account national circumstances and the availability of resources.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group  did not join the consensus, with key areas of dispute including eligibility requirements and bankability under the mechanisms.
  On the legal form, the LDCs, AILAC and the Marshall Islands suggested a legally-binding protocol.
UGANDA, with NORWAY, stressed including agroforestry.
HUNGARY suggested that the AIJ experience should be used to implement JI, and the EU said it could be used to elaborate the CDM Reference Manual.
Egypt, supported by Algeria, proposed to increase the number of African representatives in the Bureau from five to seven.
INDIA, supported by CHINA, suggested this option should be based on, and under, the UNFCCC and not involve reinterpretation or amendment of the Convention, with CHINA suggesting that “dynamic” interpretation of the principle may entail amendment.
CANADA, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN emphasized participation by all major emitters and, with ARGENTINA, emphasized the need to consider national circumstances.
The proposal from the Alliance of Small Island States  garnered widespread support, but was opposed by Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar.
Argentina, for Algeria, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, reiterated that all ADP work is under the Convention and must adhere to its principles, and said universality of application is not uniformity of application.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, submitted an outline for a protocol or legal instrument.
The EU, Umbrella Group and Tuvalu also condemned this behavior, but noted that both organizations had apologized and responded promptly to the incident with disciplinary action against those involved.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Argentina stressed possible resolutions for legal issues raised.
The US, with Canada, Australia and Japan, indicated that work on response measures should not hamper effective mitigation efforts.
The LMDCs, Algeria, China, Iran and India said public finance should be the major source of climate finance.
CANADA and AUSTRALIA urged continued development of national programmes.
The US, supported by Norway, preferred referring specifically to acidity, while Norway proposed putting the technical text in a footnote, noting, with Germany, the Netherlands and the UK, the need to show that a 0.1 pH decrease is significant.
Mauritius and Bangladesh drew attention to tropical cyclones; Peru, Colombia and Chile discussed their experiences during the 1997-1998 El Niño; the Central African Republic noted the importance of equatorial forests; Iran and Uganda stressed droughts; Mali highlighted floods and underscored the need for an early alert system; and Turkey, Chile and Colombia offered to contribute case studies from their own experiences.
 On elements that need to be further addressed, Belize, for AOSIS, stressed the need to consider the impacts on vulnerable countries of a long-term target, trade-offs implicit in emissions pathways and damages caused by climate change.
Gabon, for the African Group, recalled that parties have the right to submit their views at any time.
Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, opposed by Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, CHINA, BRAZIL and the PHILIPPINES, reiterated support for establishing an expert group, highlighting the guiding role that such a body could play.
On the remaining carbon budget, Japan and Saudi Arabia noted a lack of clarity on the text’s two budget numbers, based on different probabilities of limiting global warming to 1.5 c2 b0C, and asked how they were derived.
Georgia wondered what incentives had been provided to the private sector in Uruguay to encourage their involvement in the national communications process.
Minister Auken said a separate EU proposal on financial issues had also been presented and that, based also on the proposal submitted by the Umbrella Group, there was substantial material on which to negotiate.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the G-77/CHINA 92s inability to participate fully in discussions, and added that text should be open for comment later on.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, and Maldives, for AOSIS, noted that the consultations will consider the Executive Committee  report and recommendations, rather than the COP’s authority over and guidance to the WIM.
Several parties, including NEW ZEALAND, the US, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND, expressed their intention to voluntarily apply the revised guidelines, or consider including some of the guidelines’ elements, in their seventh NCs.
The PHILIPPINES and CHINA proposed forming an open- ended group, but cautioned that limiting the size could also limit equitable geographical distribution.
Referring to a suggestion by authors to add approved text from WGII SPM stating that integration of adaptation into planning and decision making can promote synergies with development and disaster risk reduction, Saudi Arabia, with El Salvador and opposed by Canada, requested referring to e2 80 9cpolicy design e2 80 9d instead of e2 80 9cdecision making, e2 80 9d noting that the statement is mainly addressed to governments and that the private sector e2 80 99s involvement in adaptation is insignificant in his country.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, said the documents are the principal source to assess progress.
On the base year for additional activities, Papua New Guinea noted the challenge of using 1990 as the base year due to inadequate data and the EU highlighted that a single base year is not politically feasible.
The US, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA argued these issues should be addressed in decision text.
The EIG and AFRICAN GROUP welcomed the report.
Argentina, with Egypt, expressed concern over the inclusion of land sector emissions, noting that agriculture is not the main contributor to climate change.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, stressed operationalization of the Paris Agreement requires, inter alia: universal participation; implementation through adequate policies; incentivizing stakeholders for broad participation; and cooperation on MOI.
Speaking for several developing countries, IRAN asked for a postponement of the discussion until COP-6, and ARGENTINA added that the options included were unacceptable.
AOSIS highlighted urgency and impacts on LDCs and SIDS as the benchmark.
The Group also reiterated that support for NAMAs comes from public sources in developed countries, while some developed countries, including Canada and Australia, preferred a more inclusive approach.
The EU, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND called for key principles governing the rules for the land sector and markets, emphasizing, supported by Chile, for AILAC, the need to avoid double counting.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by EGYPT, cautioned against “cherry-picking” from Decision 1/CP.17.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for an adaptation framework covering the full costs, as well as an international mechanism for addressing loss and damage.
CHINA and KUWAIT said it is premature to draw conclusions.
Sudan, for the G-77/China, stressed that the core mandate of the ongoing negotiations is to define ambitious quantified emission reduction targets for future commitment periods.
CAMBODIA, TANZANIA, BENIN, TOGO and others highlighted the needs of LDCs, and MAURITIUS and TUVALU the needs of SIDS.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for the AWG-LCA’s work to be guided by a greater sense of urgency and ambition.
On guidance on the mitigation section of decision 1/CP.21, Gabon, for the African Group, and Maldives for AOSIS, opposed references to the land sector and called for guidance to ensure environmental integrity and prevent double counting under Agreement Article 6 .
AUSTRALIA reported on its clean energy future package, which she said will drive “the biggest expansion in the clean energy sector in Australia’s history.”
SAUDI ARABIA and LIBYA called for inclusion of the G-77/China submissions.
The G- 77/CHINA, with the PHILIPPINES and CHINA, expressed concern about: increasing emission trends among Annex II Parties; activities relating to financial resources and technology transfer; the lack of progress in the development of policies and measures; and gaps in reporting by Annex I Parties.
INDIA and SOUTH AFRICA said workshops could be integrated into the negotiating process.
Delegates accepted a proposal by the Least Developed Countries  to integrate text on special treatment for LDCs into the adverse effects section of the draft decision.
On commitments, the US stated that success of the Protocol requires the involvement of all countries, while Kuwait opposed the imposition of any additional obligations on developing countries.
The US and Singapore indicated that there are other avenues to discuss IPRs.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for early establishment of a NAMA registry and the adoption of guidelines for NAMAs, both those seeking and those not seeking international support.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, highlighted the urgency of textual negotiations.
Emphasizing that Durban should result in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , called for improving the effectiveness of the Kyoto Protocol by closing loopholes and ensuring its continuity by adopting an amendment in Durban to be provisionally applied pending its entry into force.
Chair Ashe continued informal consultations on the budget in an attempt to break the deadlock between the US and the EU.
CHINA, the PHILIPPINES and KUWAIT opposed the EU’s preference to “approve and adopt” the Revised Guidelines.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said any political statement or declaration that leaves the legal form open was unacceptable.
 On Thursday, France and Spain asked for a cross-chapter box on Mediterranean regions.
Parties debated a proposal by Argentina, Uruguay and Colombia to delete reference to tackling “the drivers” of deforestation and forest degradation.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA supported maintaining the current composition, and SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA suggested consideration of the terms of reference was therefore not necessary and could be withdrawn.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, CANADA, SWITZERLAND and the US said the existing capacity-building framework is sufficient.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the meeting in Panama represented an “important advance” towards Durban on issues such as mitigation, finance, technology and capacity building to enable discussions in Durban.
 JAPAN and CANADA, opposed by CHINA, proposed linking the AWG and other elements of the Bali roadmap.
Welcomed by the PHILIPPINES, INDIA and others, the US said financing is crucial for developing countries, and stressed the need for institutions and financial architecture that respond to developing country financing needs and improve developing countries’ capacity to benefit from carbon markets.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, called for, inter alia: an overview of the climate finance architecture; avoiding duplication; and assessing other sources of financing.
On timetables for submissions, JAPAN and others proposed February 2008, while CHILE and others preferred a pre-Bali deadline.
Germany, supported by Egypt, favored scoping of SPMs rather than the full report, noting it would enable a more focused and decreased workload.
On the mandate of the facilitation branch, the EU, with the US, Australia and New Zealand, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, China and the United Arab Emirates, said cases should be dealt with on their merits and not on the basis of the Party involved.
 Penelope Beckles, Trinidad and Tobago 92s Minister of Public Utilities and the Environment, stressed that small island developing States  have already been suffering the negative impacts of climate change due to their geographical location, lack of technical and financial resources, and the vulnerability of their biodiversity to climate change.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the Asian Group, and supported by INDIA, PAKISTAN, CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, INDONESIA, KUWAIT and IRAN, stated that, on the election of the Vice-Chair, they had asked for a guarantee to honor the UN principle of geographical rotation after the next term, but this had been rejected.
AUSTRALIA and MEXICO supported financing for MRV actions.
The US, with the eventual support of G-77/CHINA, rejected the compilation document and called on the four draft decisions to be presented in their entirety to the SBI.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for inclusion of information on why parties perceive their contributions as equitable.
On the budget for conference services, the US, JAPAN and CANADA said conference expenses should be borne by the UNFCCC budget and not the budget of the UN General Assembly .
GUATEMALA, on behalf of the Central America Group, and PANAMA described political changes in their region and activities, such as recognizing the validity of the IPCC and promoting awareness of the human impact on the environment and consolidating national environmental legal instruments.
The Climate Action Network presented an NGO evaluation of 20 OECD countries" plans, noting that although procedural implementation is moving forward, more needs to be done substantively.
AILAC, the LDCs, NORWAY and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO suggested some modalities for a compliance mechanism to be included in the agreement, while the LMDCs suggested a work plan for a body to develop the modalities.
The Philippines, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, El Salvador, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Iran, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, cautioned against adopting a pledge-based approach, emphasizing the need for an aggregate system, common accounting and comparability of efforts.
Barbados, for AOSIS, expressed willingness to consider more frequent communication of issues, such as GHG inventories, while calling for ensuring the provision of enhanced support.
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed reservations with the facilitator’s note.
 Following comments from Norway and Switzerland, a footnote was included to state that radiative forcing from halocarbons has been assessed in an IPCC Special Report.
NEW ZEALAND supported the US and stated that the revised measures should be adopted at COP-2 to be applied to second national communications.
NORWAY, supported by AUSTRALIA, opposed “differentiated engagement,” saying defining criteria would be difficult.
The G-77/CHINA, with SAUDI ARABIA, BURKINA FASO, and the EU, called for increased funding for the participation of delegates from developing countries.
Views of the EU, the US and the G-77/China were compiled in document FCCC/SBSTA/1998/MISC.5.
China, Iran, Ecuador, Palau and Tanzania said that private finance should be complementary, but not replace public finance.
South Africa, for the Group of 77 and China , supported by Sudan, for the African Group, lamented that the ADP Co-Chairs had not fulfilled their mandate to produce a balanced text.
GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, expressed disappointment at the inability to reach agreement.
Antigua and Barbuda, speaking for the G-77/China, expressed regret that expectations for Poznań had not been met, calling for a radical change in approach.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, stressed that there was no agreement to include the item on the agenda.
CHINA called for: a more streamlined project approval process; transparency in incremental cost calculation, and, with IRAN, no conditionalities attached to the activities of multilateral funding institutions, which was opposed by CANADA.
Nauru, for AOSIS, expressed hope that the ADP would demonstrate a “sober, serious and determined sense of urgency and ambition.” She called for a mitigation work programme that makes strides in closing the recognized mitigation ambition gap.
 Mary Robinson, Mary Robinson Foundation e2 80 93 Climate Justice, recommended that: the UNFCCC Secretariat establish a human rights focal point, which SENEGAL and IRELAND supported; human and women’s rights be integrated throughout climate actions; and all parties and observers include local communities in their delegations.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored efforts undertaken since 2007 to fulfill the AWG-LCA’s mandate and build confidence among parties, including the establishment of transparency requirements for all parties, the Adaptation Framework and the Green Climate Fund .
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, presented its proposals stating that they were "end-of-the-line" positions.
The EU, supported by Japan, Colombia, Canada, the Marshall Islands, Iceland, Australia, Guyana and many others, supported establishing a “friends of the chair” group.
Ecuador, supported by Togo, called for greater involvement of national focal points in contacting experts and resolving potential difficulties in their participation.
e2 80 9d The LDCs, with TURKEY, preferred e2 80 9cprovisions.
The US, opposed by the EU and AUSTRALIA, proposed deleting the section on adjustments in accordance with Article 5.2 , maintaining that reporting should be the responsibility of the review team, not the Party.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, acknowledged flexibility shown in enabling progress and expressed hope that this constructive spirit would prevail in Durban.
Regarding a proposed footnote stating that CDR methods carry side effects and long-term consequences on a global scale, many delegations, including the US, Australia, Canada, Norway and Slovenia, requested insertion of a qualifier to indicate that the statement may not apply to all CDR methods.
Australia and the US noted that parties at COP 23 had agreed how to reflect the issues discussed under possible additional matters.
The US, with HUNGARY, noted the importance of clearly defining the functions of a nominations committee.
JAPAN, opposed by CHINA and INDONESIA, supported using ODA funding for the CDM.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said the AWG-LCA should benefit from maximum flexibility in Barcelona in order to finish its work before Copenhagen.
Both Switzerland and the Netherlands offered financial support for the workshop.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stated a possible outcome should reflect the elements of the BAP.
Calling for raising mitigation ambition for 2020, CHINA asked why the EU has made its 30% emission reduction contribution conditional on comparable commitments by other developed countries and on e2 80 9cadequate e2 80 9d contributions by advanced developing countries.
Senegal, on behalf of the African Group, announced that Zimbabwe will preside over COP-2.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the importance of improving cooperation with observer organizations.
SAUDI ARABIA, the EU and the US opposed.
Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and Argentina stressed the need to link adaptation to MOI.
On uncertainties and choices regarding non-CO2 mitigation vis- c3 a0-vis carbon budgets, Belgium, supported by Grenada, noted that pursuing any limit in temperature with a probability higher than 66% implies a smaller carbon budget.
NORWAY, supported by NEW ZEALAND, added brackets around “since 1990” in Option C, as in Options A and B. GRENADA queried how to measure 1990 sinks now if not already done and suggested giving a negative credit to countries when sinks are destroyed.
On the first item, UKRAINE agreed to remove the brackets, while KAZAKHSTAN and BELARUS requested more time for consultation.
Seychelles, for AOSIS, stressed that AOSIS has made the economic, scientific and moral case for emission reductions at the level that science demands, while lamenting the “enormous gap” between the pledges and science.
BENIN said the text must address the fundamental concern of LDCs regarding limiting temperature increase to 1.5°C.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, looked forward to working with the Co-Chairs towards a balanced package that will “take us to the finish line.”
Costa Rica and Indonesia highlighted the role of ecosystem services in adaptation.
Benin, Togo and others underscored regional balance, particularly consideration of Africa.
Supported by CHINA and MALAYSIA, the PHILIPPINES reiterated his country’s proposal to delete agenda item 4 and reformulate item 3 to “planning of work in accordance with all the elements of Decision 1/CP.17.” He expressed concern over lack of progress under the AWG-KP and AWG-LCA, and attempts to limit the question of ambition to the ADP.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the establishment of the ADP should result in a strengthened multilateral, rule-based climate change regime, emphasizing the need for significant scaling up of developed country mitigation ambition.
JAPAN underscored that they will “never inscribe their new target under the Kyoto Protocol under any circumstances.” He said Japan adds value to discussions on the rules due to their experience in implementing them, and noted that the discussions on rules under the AWG-KP are beneficial for discussions under the AWG-LCA.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by CHINA, INDIA, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, BRAZIL, MALAYSIA, SAUDI ARABIA, GHANA, SAMOA, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, VENEZUELA, MEXICO, ZIMBABWE, SENEGAL, IRAN, NIGERIA, THAILAND, MAURITIUS, the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF KOREA, ALGERIA, CHILE and KUWAIT, stressed that the AGBM’s work must remain within the Berlin Mandate.
On Thursday, 15 June, delegates considered amendments to the Chair 92s text submitted by Poland and the Russian Federation.
He expressed solidarity with the people of the Philippines, as did Bolivia, who stated that the current situation in that country is “a testimony of what can be expected to take place more frequently.” Bolivia cautioned against “empty promises” and described the low level of ambition as a “death sentence” to some people.
 SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the first set of conclusions highlighted in the SBSTA report best capture the weight of the science and the urgency for action.
The first related to an objection raised by Argentina over the UK’s inclusion of the Falkland Islands/Islas Malvinas and other South Atlantic islands in its national communications.
China, supported by Brazil, requested that the importance of context be included in the Facilitator’s report.
INDONESIA, JAPAN, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND called for considering non-state actors’ inputs.
ARGENTINA and BRAZIL underscored the adverse impacts of labeling, standards and subsidies.
The G-77/China and the EU highlighted the importance of factoring out, saying it reflected principles agreed in the Marrakesh Accords, and therefore needed to be addressed before the second commitment period.
India, supported by Switzerland, Belgium and Zambia, urged a stronger focus on agriculture.
 On forestry issues, NORWAY supported New Zealand 92s initiative to establish a separate working group for considering a new protocol or other legal instrument on deforestation in developing countries.
Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed the need for full substantive discussion on the item and the EU called for compilation and synthesis of information contained in non-Annex I national communications.
 The EU, supported by the US, suggested the Secretariat focus on voluntary private sector technology transfer and on enabling conditions for its transfer.
Following comments by Brazil, Saudi Arabia and China, participants agreed to an alternative formulation of a sentence stating that improving institutions as well as coordination and cooperation in governance can help overcome regional constraints associated with mitigation, adaptation and disaster risk reduction.
Canada, Colombia and the US supported Chair Thorgeirsson 92s suggestion that such reporting activities be undertaken at the national level instead.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized the need to: preserve the balance between issues laid out in the Paris Agreement; achieve a consistent package reflecting parties’ textual submissions; and bear in mind national circumstances.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, stressed the need for consultation with national experts.
Nauru, for AOSIS, supported by Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, highlighted the need to extend the CGE’s term at least until 2016 and said its mandate should encompass a number of roles.
Reacting to the US proposal, AOSIS said his group has a clear position on this subject, and that he looked forward to sharing it once the details of the US proposal were further clarified.
The LDCs, with SOUTH AFRICA, stressed that positive signals from developed countries on addressing development and transfer of technology were required, and that smaller groups would not necessarily solve this issue.
With CANADA, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND, the EU called for work on LULUCF.
Zambia, for the LDCs, opposed.
On modalities, Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that it is premature to determine that there will be two phases.
The US, with the REPUBLIC OF KOREA, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, suggested a shortened formulation making reference only to the 2015 agreement.
 JAMAICA, CHINA, TUVALU and others supported establishing an expert group.
The EU, the US and CANADA stressed the need to ensure consistency with the capacity building aspects of other discussions on technology transfer and adaptation.
Brazil and AOSIS opposed inclusion of reference to decision 1/CMP.2 and the roundtable, which Kuwait, Qatar, Norway and others supported.
Venezuela and Bolivia welcomed the Agreement’s inclusion of, inter alia, climate justice and Mother Earth.
Nicaragua, for SICA, expressed concern over slow progress in Bangkok, and questioned whether voluntary pledges will reach the level of mitigation demanded by science.
Regarding a sentence stating that   Canada, with Japan, suggested referring to e2 80 9cplant species e2 80 9d that cannot e2 80 9cmigrate e2 80 9d fast enough, while the Netherlands suggested e2 80 9cseed plants.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed the finalization of rules for the second commitment period.
AUSTRALIA and the US supported a stock taking exercise to review available information, including from recent workshops.
Emphasizing the IPCC 92s position as an intergovernmental organization and that individuals must represent their own countries, the Russian Federation expressed support for removing the brackets around Rule 20, as did others, including Argentina, Austria, Saudi Arabia, France, the US, China, and Kenya.
The US suggested basing group discussions on both the G77/China questions and the Co-Chairs\' draft proposed schedule.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, opposed the proposals on frameworks for mitigation action by all parties, stressing the distinction between mitigation by developed and developing countries both in magnitude and legal nature.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, stated that they are not ready to consider adoption of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, but that a study on the implications of adopting the guidelines would be useful.
Norway, supported by Switzerland, Mexico, and Chile, called for earlier development of a methodological report, specifically during the AR6 cycle.
Monday evening the entire text was agreed in the contact group, following editorial changes by the EU, G-77/China and New Zealand.
The US and New Zealand supported retaining the paragraph.
The SBI adopted the conclusions with an oral amendment from China, subsequently tweaked by the US, to the paragraph urging parties and others to contribute to the LDCF, replacing “parties and others to contribute” with “additional contributions” and “and/or the GCF” with “and the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism.”
Parties noted the regional workshops held recently in Senegal and Panama were viewed as “very productive” and two remaining workshops were noted for 2012, one in Asia and the other in the Pacific.
On the linkage between CDM and LULUCF, BRAZIL, with the G-77/CHINA, argued that CDM discussions be contingent on decisions in the LULUCF contact group, and objected to a proposed presentation by the Secretariat on this issue, and to a question-and-answer session by the Chair.
Switzerland, for the EIG, indicated that COP guidance should not create additional burdens for REDD+ finance and identified the need to fill the gap between fast start and long-term financing.
The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that consultations on adequacy of commitments should focus only on Annex I countries.
On LULUCF matters, Australia, supported by Canada and Japan, tabled a written proposal for an open-ended policy dialogue.
AOSIS and Venezuela welcomed complementary activities to raise ambition, cautioning these should not detract from UNFCCC activities.
South Africa, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , emphasized, inter alia, the need for: a global response to adaptation; a fully functional Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage; advancement on long-term finance and MOI; and developed countries to increase ambition, honoring their commitments under the Protocol.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Kuwait, Iran and Nigeria, said that the pilot phase of JI should be limited to Annex I Parties.
ARGENTINA, supported by the G-77/CHINA and others, said that adaptation projects are of global benefit and should be given the highest priority under the SCCF.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, submitted a proposal for the TORs and parties agreed to consult on the basis of the G-77/China’s proposal.
The Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries , supported enhancing the financial mechanism under the COP, and highlighted the importance of national adaptation programmes of action  and the need for progress on the Nairobi Work Programme .
She noted that gases should be grouped into “families” in Annex A. Japan, the EU, Canada, and Australia supported inclusion of new gases, where there is robust scientific evidence and technical information available to support mitigation.
 headline statement, Germany, supported by Belgium, Sweden, the EU, and Luxembourg, called for reinserting a sentence from the FGD that warned of potential irreversible impacts in an “overshoot”  emissions pathway.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND said the possibility of this participation provided a sufficient incentive for Parties to submit information earlier than 1 January 2007.
BRAZIL, supported by the US, and opposed by SOUTH AFRICA, CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA, called for a placeholder for issues that have been mandated to CMA 1 but are not currently under the APA work programme.
New Zealand, Uruguay and Argentina underscored mitigation options in the agricultural sector.
New Zealand urged “moving forward together.” Norway called for a “simple” governance structure and said local communities and indigenous peoples were not a “threat” to national sovereignty.
The US said capacity building is enhanced by more frequent national communications and the EU stressed the importance of establishing and maintaining national teams to initiate learning processes.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, called for: affirming the principles of the Convention; effectively implementing the BAP; and considering how to carry forward any incomplete work from the AWG-LCA.
 Following comments from Saudi Arabia and Austria, text stating that “warming of the climate system has been detected and attributed to anthropogenic forcing” was modified, with language separating the detection and attribution components into two separate sentences.
PANAMA and BELIZE, with Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to respect the diversity among NDCs.
Japan, the EU and others suggested “advanced developing countries” should do more on mitigation, while Saudi Arabia, South Africa and others opposed differentiation among developing countries.
The Russian Federation, the US and AOSIS said the issue of confidentiality of information might conflict with the principle of transparency and needed further thought.
SAUDI ARABIA, for the G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU, suggested new headings on information related to transfer of technology and additional financial resources, and highlighted their textual proposal on information on implementation of Protocol Article 3.14.
TUVALU, with INDIA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, supported anchoring existing institutions in the agreement.
94 NORWAY and AUSTRALIA said that project participants, the host Party or a designated legal entity should monitor.
In this regard, Malaysia, on behalf of the G-77/China, proposed deleting a sentence on the need to explore the balance between mitigation and adaptation, while China and Saudi Arabia suggested removing the entire paragraph.
Mali, for the LDCs, underscored a simplified operating procedure for the Fund, enabling project approval within four months, and employment of local and regional expertise.
VIETNAM, PERU and BENIN stressed that the Kyoto Protocol is the cornerstone of the regime to address climate change.
 The EU, CENTRAL GROUP and ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported the agenda without amendments, while the AFRICA GROUP and AOSIS supported adding an item on capacity building.
 The US said that he had amendments that he had held in abeyance, but in view of the amendments made by the G-77 and China and AOSIS, he felt compelled to submit and distribute these amendments at this stage.
Bolivia, opposed by Australia and New Zealand, called for commitments based on an “indexed” global carbon budget divided among all parties according to historical responsibility, ecological footprint, state of development and capabilities.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for including funding for technology development and transfer in the agreement, and for creating a new mechanism.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged maintaining the same mode of advancement on all items, including balanced time allocation.
On the share of proceeds, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and UKRAINE supported the option requiring no decision to be made with respect to the issue.
Supporting further ministerial engagement, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, urged agreement on access to market mechanisms during the second commitment period, and called for concluding discussions under the AWG-LCA, acknowledging achievements and moving towards implementation.
 Belgium, supported by the UK and Netherlands, proposed a process for considering the future of the IPCC, suggesting written submissions for consideration at IPCC-28.
South Africa, speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China , urged agreement on the five-year work programme on adaptation and the Adaptation Fund, supported a wider mandate for the Expert Group on Technology Transfer , and called for initiating a process to consider the Resource Allocation Framework  of the Global Environment Facility .
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the US opposed the paragraph due to the lack of legal context.
The US proposed accounting for exports and imports separately, and Tuvalu noted the need to account for wood products harvested in developing countries and transferred to developed countries.
Norway, Switzerland and Japan noted that the GEF is best placed to manage the Fund, while the LDCs favored its management by an executive body, such as the CDM Executive Board, with equitable regional representation.
France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland, Canada and the US objected.
Supported by COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, ARGENTINA and IRAN, COLOMBIA opposed ignoring sinks, noting that they are also biodiversity deposits.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted that parties must agree on a legally-binding agreement in Copenhagen.
Several developing countries supported the G-77/CHINA 92s call for the formation of a contact group at this session, while the US, AUSTRALIA, SWITZERLAND and CANADA preferred forming it at SB-13.
On the way forward, many countries, including Tuvalu, for the LDCs, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, NORWAY and the EU, proposed submissions for May 2017.
EL SALVADOR and NICARAGUA called for the agreement to recognize the Central American isthmus as a particularly vulnerable area.
BANGLADESH asked for special consideration of LDCs and SIDS to be reintroduced in Article 6 .
 The G-77, supported by Algeria and Brazil, noted that two considerations must be taken into account: the determination of developing country contributions on the ability to pay, and the principle that no developing country must pay more than any developed country.
However, many other parties, including AOSIS, the G-77/China and EU supported its inclusion.
Nigeria, Ghana and the Maldives highlighted their participation in the study on investment and financial flows to address climate change and called for a follow-up of the study.
On the provisional agenda , the G-77/CHINA urged exclusion of Canada 92s proposal for a decision on modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Protocol Article 7.4  in relation to cleaner energy exports.
Thailand, for the G-77/China, and Malaysia, for the LMDCs called for, inter alia, limited parallel meetings.
MEXICO said questions on OECD membership are inappropriate.
e2 80 9d The EU and JAPAN, opposed by ECUADOR, considered specifying finance as e2 80 9cadequate and predictable e2 80 9d problematic.
SAUDI ARABIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION proposed that their statements on the Ministerial Declaration be annexed to the report in their entirety.
In the contact group on Tuesday, delegates took up discussion of the IAC Report recommendation to “develop and adopt formal qualifications and formally articulate the roles and responsibilities for all Bureau members, including the IPCC Chair, to ensure that they have both the highest scholarly qualifications and proven leadership skills.” Saudi Arabia, with Argentina and China, noted that the current IPCC procedure for the selection of Bureau members is clear and opposed the second part of the recommendation on ensuring the highest scholarly qualifications and proven leadership skills, saying that it is too judgmental.
Bolivia underlined that the G-77/China proposal preserves the mandate of the AWG-LCA and is inclusive of the Cancun decisions.
Colombia, supported by Peru, proposed categorizing projects as small, medium or large scale.
The US, Australia, Canada, Japan and New Zealand submitted a proposal for a draft decision, which, inter alia, acknowledges the potential of the CDM and JI to promote, facilitate and finance the transfer of environmentally-sound technologies to enable Parties to meet the provisions of the UNFCCC.
Norway, supported by Ireland, suggested addressing bioenergy in the forestry sector and mitigation strategies within agriculture.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented pushback on the operationalization of key items, particularly finance, adaptation, and loss and damage.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES , and Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , called for stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations below 350 parts per million  and limiting temperature increases to below 1.5ºC.
SAUDI ARABIA pointed to a convergence on the need to establish a work programme to address various approaches and PAPUA NEW GUINEA and COLOMBIA emphasized the need to do so at COP 17.
The Republic of Korea proposed referring to systems rather than to ecosystems, and Canada suggested addressing cryosphere in the chapter on freshwater resources.
BENIN emphasized the importance of sustainable development, poverty alleviation and adaptation for LDCs.
JAPAN and the EU stressed the need to maintain the momentum of Kyoto, and with FINLAND, called for the creation of a clear and efficient work plan giving priority to developing country concerns.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, stated that the SBSTA should focus on technology development and assessment adding that the COP would focus on transfer of technology, including terms and conditions of transfer.
 INDIA, supported by CHINA, noted that there were no experts nominated from some countries.
ARGENTINA, INDIA, IRAN and KUWAIT supported the G-77/China proposal.
Ukraine and Norway proposed that COP 13 should launch a negotiation process to be finalized at COP 15.
Recognizing the importance of the issue for AOSIS, NORWAY said the proposal to address loss and damage raises many questions but that his country is open to discussing them.
He expressed concern with the IMO’s proposal to develop revenue streams for addressing climate change, while Japan, the US, Australia, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the Cook Islands and Panama supported the work of the IMO and ICAO to reduce emissions.
 On eligibility criteria, the EU and the Environmental Integrity Group  proposed that the criteria should cover non-Annex I parties, “especially those that are particularly vulnerable.” The G-77/China preferred the wording “developing country Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that are particularly vulnerable.” The language agreed is similar to that used in Protocol Article 12.8, apart from reference to the costs of adaptation.
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , requested holding the first contact group meetings before tabling draft conclusions and supported joint SBSTA and SBI meetings on technology transfer.
The EU, supported by the US, CANADA and JAPAN, stressed the importance of the national communications process, and highlighted the recognition of the special needs and circumstances of LDCs in the FCCC.
AOSIS, supported by BRAZIL, also on behalf of ARGENTINA and URUGUAY, stressed the need for in-depth dialogue on the governance and operational modalities of the Adaptation Fund serving the Paris Agreement.
Canada and the US stressed that INDCs relate to mitigation.
Noting readiness to enter into negotiations, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, called for addressing “crux” issues quickly.
Stating willingness to discuss the proposal made by Colombia, Australia reiterated the importance of including all major emitters in order to get a chance to actually reach the global goal, while noting different capabilities.
Kenya, with Austria and others, cautioned against prejudging the outcome of the Working Groups, and Saudi Arabia recommended delaying production of the SYR.
Honduras, for SICA, welcomed progress on loss and damage and highlighted the need for: further progress on NAPs; full and timely support for adaptation measures from developed countries; and financial resources to compensate loss and damage, noting that COP 18 should work towards prevention and the reduction of damages as a main priority.
Japan, Australia and the US emphasized that assessed contributions as a key source of finance was not an area of convergence, while the EU acknowledged the need for assessed contributions.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern that parties were still not negotiating.
With the Gambia, for the LDCs, she called for the issue to be included on the SBI 35 agenda under the item on further guidance to the GEF.
With Norway, Kenya, and Luxembourg, Canada recommended examining actions on gender being taken by other organizations, such as the UNFCCC and WMO.
Canada, supported by the US and Australia, proposed establishing a joint SBSTA/SBI contact group to allow for full deliberation of the Review.
The US, Canada and Australia expressed concern regarding the lack of rigorous research on contributions to climate change.
During opening statements, Argentina, for the G-77/China, reiterated concern with the slow progress towards a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that the COP should provide further guidance to the GCF Board on how to expedite the operationalization of the Fund and initiate an early and adequate replenishment process.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, on behalf of AOSIS, said paragraph 2 was an attempt to reflect the SBSTA\'s consideration of the SAR and supported taking special note of the findings.
SAMOA proposed changing a sentence that stated "Many Parties" agreed that only a legally-binding instrument would meet the requirements of the BM, to "The AGBM agreed" but KUWAIT objected.
Supported by BRAZIL, INDIA opposed sectoral approaches, saying they could lead to benchmarking and adversely affect developing countries’ economic growth.
The BAHAMAS highlighted mitigation efforts by AOSIS.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported progress on LULUCF, including on accounting rules and forest management baselines.
Switzerland, for the EIG, stated that progress e2 80 9chas been slow because of us, the parties, not because of the Co-Chairs.
Canada, with Australia and the EU, advocated transparency while recognizing financial realities.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said no further decisions were required for the AWG-LCA to terminate in Doha.
The US, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, recommended text requiring non-Annex I Parties to submit national inventories every two years.
On submissions in the next steps section, BRAZIL, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, REPUBLIC OF KOREA, Peru, for AILAC, and the US, opposed by CHINA and INDIA, called for “common” to be inserted before MPGs.
India, for Brazil, South Africa, India, and China, underscored that the PAWP should support enhanced ambition without “back-sliding” on rules.
The EU said it was aware of the importance of these issues for developing countries, particularly least developed countries and, with the US, supported one decision.
She also outlined various confirmed dates for the incoming Presidency’s consultations ahead of Durban, as follows: a ministerial meeting in Berlin, Germany, from 3-4 July, in collaboration with the German government; and a meeting with negotiators from 25-26 July, in Auckland, New Zealand, in collaboration with the New Zealand government.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern at the “insistence” of Annex I parties on a single outcome in Copenhagen and stressed that this undermines the mandate under the Bali Roadmap to finalize negotiations on: further commitments of Annex I parties for the second and subsequent commitment periods under the Protocol; and an agreed outcome under the Convention, aimed at sustained and full implementation of its provisions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, stressed the need for public registries to provide accessible information on parties’ NDCs, and suggested linking the adaptation communications registry and NDC registries.
The G-77/China, Argentina, the LDCs, and Algeria, for the African Group, urged consensus on political issues before progressing toward resolving technical issues.
AUSTRALIA and the US said discussions should focus on minimizing adverse impacts rather than on compensation.
The US and AUSTRALIA underlined that there were four possible options.
The EU and Switzerland, among others, stressed the need for clarity on the way forward to COP 24.
FRANCE added that integrated scenarios might be beyond the scope of the IPCC, and, with the NETHERLANDS and others, noted the need to focus on a small number of scenarios.
AILAC and the EU emphasized driving action and greater ambition.
The G-77/China, the Russian Federation and the US objected to text requesting the Secretariat to develop a draft work programme on the TAR.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, accepted the Chair\'s draft conclusions as amended, on the understanding that the paragraph , proposed by the G-77 and China, and the new paragraphs  and , proposed by the Philippines, will be included in a document available for discussion and consideration at the second session.
e2 80 9d Colombia, for AILAC, requested that a synthesis be e2 80 9ccompiled into a summary and presented at the annual high-level forum.
On crediting based on NAMAs, the G-77/CHINA and TUVALU preferred no decision.
Argentina, Fiji, Colombia, Mauritius, Chile, Malaysia and Bolivia supported the AOSIS protocol.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, BRAZIL, INDIA and CHINA opposed this addition.
Botswana, for the African Group, Uganda, for LDCs, China, Brazil and others stressed the importance of the means of implementation.
AUSTRALIA, supported by NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, the US and JAPAN, stressed the importance of ex ante and ex post transparency and accountability, emphasizing the need for: providing clarity to predict and quantify the impacts of parties’ commitments; understanding the methods used by parties to track their efforts; and tracking impacts and learning lessons to enhance actions.
The G-77 and China were represented by Argentina, Benin, China, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Trinidad and Tobago.
Responding to a proposal by Chair Appadu calling on non-Annex I Parties to submit national communications every four years, the G-77/CHINA said that while some Group members had considered six years to be a reasonable option, he did not have the mandate of the G-77/China to present this as a formal Group position.
The following views were also expressed: INDIA said natural climate variation and the effects of extraterritorial activities on climate change should be studied in greater detail; PAKISTAN and GEORGIA thought the SAR should be amended to reflect regional differences in climate change; and the PHILIPPINES, INDONESIA, BRAZIL and others said the SAR should be used as a comprehensive whole and not selectively.
Japan emphasized that there was no guarantee that the US would agree to the assumed level, warning this would undermine the political durability of the process.
On Friday, delegates were briefed on three bilateral support programmes funded by Canada, Finland, and the US.
The Umbrella Group and the EU expressed disappointment that the matter would not be discussed at SBI 28.
Sierra Leone, for the AFRICAN GROUP, supported the establishment of a forum under the COP.
CUBA, for Argentina, Brazil, China, India and Saudi Arabia, supported by SOUTH AFRICA and others, stressed the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
The PHILIPPINES, coordinator of G-77/China on this issue, recalled that her group had entered these negotiations with a solid position, but had moved from it to accommodate the process.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, highlighted the need for all countries to prepare NAPAs, difficulties with accessing existing adaptation funds, and the need for climate-resilient development within a sustainable development framework.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, highlighted the role of major economies and identified the need for a global agreement that is informed by science, achievable, comprehensive, and able to reflect the full spectrum of mitigation and adaptation options.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, lamented the actions of some “major players” who were declaring that they have no intention to commit to a second commitment period.
Gambia, for LDCs, called for a spin-off group on the scale of funding, based on the needs of developing countries.
In 2009, the AWGs convened for parallel sessions: in April, June and August in Bonn, Germany; October in Bangkok, Thailand; November in Barcelona, Spain; and December in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Micronesia stressed the need for expedited access, and South Africa said the level of funding to ensure the sustainability of the SCCF needed to be addressed.
The EU and AUSTRALIA underscored the need to exchange information and said that national communications are an appropriate means for information exchange by all parties.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, suggested agreeing on the core elements of the 2015 agreement as quickly as possible and addressing information required for INDCs.
Germany, South Africa, Norway and others proposed ways to improve the briefing sessions and make them cost-efficient.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed, inter alia, the role of the Adaptation Fund in serving the Paris agreement, and, that pre-2020 ambition remains of “critical importance.”
UKRAINE, supported by the US and AUSTRALIA, said that the SBI’s previous consideration of the report on national GHG inventory data from Annex I parties neglected to note that double counting occurred when data were reported by two countries from areas that he said were “illegally annexed.”
Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , said COP 16 should demonstrate that the international community will deliver a legally-binding outcome within a clear deadline.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by BELARUS, called for adding a reference to translation of the text into all official UNFCCC languages.
India, Venezuela and the Arab Group supported an intersessional meeting prior to Durban.
Under implementation of adaptation action, Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said the text should avoid overly prescriptive language and focus on concrete adaptation activities.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for a dedicated space before the COP to discuss the IPCC’s Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C and suggested concluding discussions on the Adaptation Fund at APA 1-6 in Bangkok for a decision at COP 24.
Cautioning that CMA 1 may be a cause for celebration but not complacency, Maldives for AOSIS, called on building on the momentum of when “the international community puts its collective well-being over its individual interest.”
Chile, for AILAC, said that e2 80 9ccontributions e2 80 9d should be communicated every five years, with an indication of contributions for the subsequent five-year period, as well as the five-year period following that.
China, for BASIC, urged developed countries to raise their level of ambition in line with science and their historical responsibility, and suggested further discussions on ambition under the COP or CMP.
NORWAY, supported by the EU, highlighted the linkages between the adjustment and compliance processes.
On uncertainties, CANADA, the EU and URUGUAY supported the provisions laid out in the Marrakesh Accords.
BRAZIL, with ECUADOR, called for addressing protectionist trade measures, including prohibiting unilateral climate-related trade measures, such as tariffs or non-tariff fiscal measures applied at the border.
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia expressed difficulty with Rule 22 on composition of the Bureau.
Saint Lucia, with Marshall Islands and Bahamas, called for more extensive coverage of impacts, possibly in two chapters, addressing global, regional, sectoral and other impacts.
Gabon, for the African Group, welcomed the outcome of the PAWP and highlighted the need for a similar commitment to ensure adequate means of implementation.
South Africa, for BASIC, highlighted unresolved issues, including equity, intellectual property rights  and unilateral trademeasures.
Highlighting focus on the adoption of “deep emission reductions” by Annex I parties and that many aspects of the amendment proposal are inconsistent with the Convention, INDIA called for proceeding with work “without sidestepping.” COP/MOP President Hedegaard noted India’s concerns but said that informal consultations on the proposals will continue.
Maldives, for AOSIS, supported by AILAC and Angola, for the LDCs, noted that the 2013-2015 review underscored the inadequacy of the 2 c2 b0C limit, adding that a 1.5 c2 b0C limit is still feasible but the window for action is closing.
Austria and South Africa highlighted the structure 92s relevance for policymakers, and Australia stressed the link between the structure and the risk management process, which involves identifying vulnerability and impacts, making a decision on adaptation response and re-assessment of vulnerability.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, supported by PAPUA NEW GUINEA, called for an AWG-KP output that adopts ratifiable amendments to the Kyoto Protocol and its Annex B that will be provisionally applied.
He said a compilation document will include proposals from AOSIS, the German elements paper, the Russian Federation, and the EU protocol structure.
JAPAN proposed referring to technologies that are "suitable to local needs," while the EU suggested "technologies that are appropriate to the situation in the respective country."
TUVALU, supported by AOSIS, argued that this agenda item required formal consideration, and proposed suspending the COP until the issue is resolved.
Belgium, the UK, Netherlands, Germany, the US, Co-Chair Davidson and others stressed that many hours had been spent discussing every word and urged Brazil to accept the compromise.
Mexico, South Africa, the Dominican Republic, Fiji, and Trinidad and Tobago supported the third option, in which the COP would decide that all parties shall provide information on the reference point , time frames and periods for implementation, scope and coverage, expected quantified outcomes, any assumptions, methodologies, land-use accounting approaches and expected use of market mechanisms, undertakings in national adaptation planning processes, and if applicable, the provision of MOI support for ambitious mitigation and adaptation action in developing countries, with special consideration for parties particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and how the party considers that its INDC is fair and equitable, ambitious and consistent with the objective of the Convention, and decide that parties shall provide the information identified in Annex II, as appropriate, when communicating their INDC.
 Maldives, for the LDCs, and Grenada, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , challenged a scenario projecting GHG concentrations of between 445-490 parts per million  and a change in global mean temperature above pre-industrial levels of between 2-2.4 b0C.
ARGENTINA and BRAZIL said mitigation measures should be compatible with WTO rules.
BANGLADESH and NIGERIA lamented the inadequacy of available funds.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a new and effective global climate regime and a conversation on the contribution of the Kyoto Protocol to that system.
In addition to inviting non-Annex I Parties to benefit from information sharing, Switzerland, with Australia and Canada, supported a standing agenda item on P&amp;Ms. Saudi Arabia said that discussions should be limited to Annex I Parties.
 Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern about calls by Annex I parties to end the Kyoto Protocol in favor of a single agreement in Copenhagen.
Malawi, for the LDCs, supported by JAMAICA, proposed referring to the decision as the e2 80 9cLima Work Programme on Gender.
Norway, with the Philippines and Ghana, for the African Group, noted the need to work toward bringing REDD+ initiatives under the UNFCCC.
The EU, CANADA and others requested additional time to consider the compilation.
Argentina, Barbados, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia had also been invited to send representatives.
BARBADOS questioned the value of forming a contact group, while SAUDI ARABIA, BOTSWANA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, JAPAN, INDONESIA and KUWAIT supported forming a group at this meeting.
SENEGAL, NIGERIA and COLOMBIA expressed reservations on the completeness of the activities list.
CANADA agreed with JAPAN and HUNGARY that further distribution of the guidelines and methodology was necessary.
Ecuador, for ALBA, proposed organizing a high-level meeting before Durban to push for increased ambition levels and said hosting the next intersessional in Panama would reflect the region’s efforts in this process.
The Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, reported that small island developing states are prepared to contribute to carbon neutrality, absolute reductions below base year and enhancing existing efforts.
The EU outlined possible elements of a Copenhagen agreement, including: integration of adaptation into national decision making and planning; scaling up of resources for adaptation; and support for LDCs to formulate adaptation plans and programmes.
Sweden, for the EUROPEAN UNION , urged parties to increase their emission reduction commitments and welcomed the new Japanese pledge.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, expressed “profound dissatisfaction” with Thursday evening’s stocktaking starting in spite of an ongoing coordination meeting of the G-77/China, calling for the “fair treatment” of all parties.
Costa Rica, for AILAC, called for an ADP decision that includes, inter alia, a definition of ex ante information for the preparation and communication of INDCs by all parties.
Tuvalu proposed a new legally-binding instrument and the EU said it should be part of a post-2012 agreement.
Calling for a prompt start to the Review, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, with SINGAPORE, the EU and others, emphasized the need for a narrow focus on scope in the context of what was agreed in Cancun.
AUSTRALIA expressed concern regarding the singling out of genetically modified organisms  and invasive alien species , while NORWAY expressed preference for stronger text on excluding GMOs and IAS.
AUSTRALIA, NORWAY, the EU, CANADA and others supported this approach.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, said the aim for Cancún should be a politically-balanced set of decisions that could be quickly operationalized.
SAMOA said it did not share all of the concerns expressed by Saudi Arabia.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, underscored the group’s commitment to goodwill and expressed concern over the repeated use of the refrain “the world has changed.” China underlined that an ambitious Paris outcome should give equal weight to all of the Durban mandate components and said developed countries should take the lead.
The US, with AUSTRALIA, SLOVENIA, NORWAY, and CANADA, supported the consideration of a multi-year work programme, and the streamlining of each session 92s agenda.
AUSTRIA and the US suggested attending to this in the rules of procedure rather than in the definitions.
They also called for adopting the necessary amendments at CMP 8 to ensure the entry into force of the Protocol’s second commitment period and its provisional application from January 2013.The Gambia, for LDCs, indicated that Annex I parties who have not confirmed their participation in the second commitment period should not continue participating in the Protcol’s flexibility mechanisms.
Brazil, for the  G-77/CHINA, said proposed actions in sectors should be voluntary and compatible with an open international economic system.
Supported by the Marshall Islands and Singapore, he suggested political and technical dialogues, with Singapore indicating that these discussions need to interact and reinforce each other.
SUDAN and BOLIVIA stressed the need for transparency and sought clarification on the establishment of a smaller group.
Jamaica, for AOSIS, suggested identifying and assessing vulnerabilities across industries, such as tourism, shipping, air travel and cruise ships.
Switzerland, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed that a contact group be established using the Chair 92s consolidated text as a basis for discussion.
GRENADA, supported by PERU and the EU, and opposed by UGANDA, preferred deleting the paragraph exempting SIDS from payment of fees and retaining the option permitting postponement of the payment of fees by parties with fewer than ten registered projects, noting that exempting all countries with fewer than ten projects could negatively impact functioning of the CDM Executive Board.
  On this issue , Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, highlighted the need for an overarching decision on rules and procedures for the second commitment period.
Burkina Faso expressed concerns that the US$405,000 allocated for second communications using the expedited process should be a flexible rather than a fixed amount, and Nigeria questioned whether this level of funding would be adequate for every country.
Bolivia, Chile and Ecuador supported including it either as a separate chapter or as a bullet point within each chapter.
Norway advocated joint targets for OECD countries based on equitable sharing of responsibility.
Poland, for the European Union , reiterated their willingness to consider a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol contingent on agreement on process for a legally binding comprehensive framework.
The US opposed the G-77/CHINA proposal to delete reference to "integrated approaches" to technology transfer.
In response to a request from Japan, the caption was modified to clarify that scenarios included the full portfolio of mitigation options, while retaining mention that the scenarios also include CCS, as suggested by Saudi Arabia.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, recalled recent findings by the IPCC and called for strengthened mitigation and adaptation efforts, taking account of the circumstances of small states.
On a proposal by the G-77/ CHINA to delete Part III on the review of information on AA, the US said the guidelines should provide for review of information related to AA.
Trinidad and Tobago and others insisted on a 2/3 majority.
AILAC suggested establishing a new forum for parties to voluntarily share information on NAMA support and, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, a new mechanism to catalyze action on mitigation.
This was opposed by the US, Japan and Canada, which preferred it to report to the SBSTA, with certain relevant items being forwarded to the SBI.
Noting that the GCF capitalization resulted from the Cancun Agreements, the LDCs, with Malaysia, emphasized the need for a process on financial contributions beyond 2020.
The EU, supported by the US, suggested considering insurance and risk assessment, and removing reference to a work programme on insurance.
SOUTH AFRICA said climate change measures should not eradicate jobs and livelihoods, noting as an example the negative consequences of developed country consumers’ attention to “food miles.” The LDCs highlighted high costs of mitigation technologies.
The EU said all OECD countries should have legally binding targets.
  Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, noted the impacts of response measures on developing countries and proposed holding a contact group.
On response measures, the LDCs, VENEZUELA, ARGENTINA and the UAE, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and CANADA, variously supported a mechanism, institution or permanent forum.
This was seconded by MICRONESIA, the MALDIVES, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and NIUE.
On the section on Framing issues , the UK, supported by Germany, suggested the framing issues be more practical and renamed “concepts and analytical approaches.” Switzerland emphasized that the chapters on ethics and sustainability should provide disaggregated information, which should be carried through as a methodology in the chapters on sectors and trends.
She announced a 75% increase in Switzerland’s annual contribution to the Least Developed Countries Fund .
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, BELARUS and UKRAINE objected to the characterization of technical consultations under Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8 as e2 80 9cpractically ready, e2 80 9d stressing that the interests of economies in transition have not been addressed.
JAPAN and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized the importance of monitoring and evaluation.
The EU, supported by Japan and Norway, expressed concerns over the heavy agenda and overlap with a SBSTA item on Protocol Article 2.3 .
On purpose, Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, noted there are differences between realizing and operationalizing the global goal on adaptation, and said that efforts, not efforts and actions, should be recognized.
Brazil, Japan, Jordan and the Republic of Korea supported a ten-year cycle, with the Republic of Korea calling for a mid-term review to accommodate parties e2 80 99 capabilities.
INDONESIA and UGANDA sought assistance with capacity building.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the Adaptation Fund as a successful example of direct access to funding and called for further progress in key issues, including: funding for national communications for non-Annex I parties; the establishment of a technology transfer mechanism; and capacity building needs in developing countries.
Kuwait and Mali disagreed.
St. Lucia, for AOSIS, proposed prioritizing: operationalizing the accounting structure; establishing environmental integrity safeguards; sustainable development provisions; and, with Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, allocating a share of proceeds to adaptation.
 This issue was first taken up by SBI 26 on Monday, 7 May, with Japan emphasizing the need to avoid duplicating activities under the Convention and Protocol and the US stating that there was a more logical sequence of tasks than that set out in the Secretariat report .
NEW ZEALAND, with AUSTRALIA, ARGENTINA, the US, the EU, BAHAMAS, CHILE and the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA, sought to retain the phrase 93complete its work, 94 as Parties had a responsibility to achieve the objectives of the BAPA and it would be difficult to justify a less ambitious goal.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, lamented the emerging imbalance in progress between APA, SBI, and SBSTA items.
South Africa, supported by Brazil and Saint Lucia, and opposed by Kazakhstan and Belarus, proposed deleting option 4, which states that Article 3.7ter refers to the preceding commitment period of that party.
ICELAND and JAPAN underscored sectoral approaches.
 ESTONIA supported the EU structure as the basis for negotiations.
On review of INDCs, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIA FEDERATION opposed assessment of INDCs by the Secretariat, with NEW ZEALAND calling for a simple and practical review process.
The G-77/CHINA opposed the US proposal saying that the group will not undermine well-established UN practices on equitable geographical distribution and rotation principles.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, said he could not accept the deletion of the preambular Principles, and CHINA commented that too many options had been eliminated from the text.
BOTSWANA and SRI LANKA welcomed LAKI’s progress and future workshops.
The EU, US, SWITZERLAND and SAMOA said some elements in the Annexes might need to be included in the text.
Noting that the IPCC 92s terms of reference have served the organization well, Australia, with support from Switzerland, the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Germany, Peru and others, suggested that a short-term review by a small team working with the IPCC Chair might be preferable to a lengthier review at this time.
The US and Japan bracketed the list of activities aimed at improving the transparency, effectiveness and comparability of P&amp;Ms. Japan and the US, opposed by the EU and G-77/China, advocated deleting the link between P&amp;Ms and demonstrable progress.
Cuba, India, Tanzania, Indonesia and others urged addressing intellectual property rights .
Belize, for AOSIS, suggested devoting three-quarters of the time to discussing technology transfer and the rest to capacity building so as not to confuse the issues.
SOUTH AFRICA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, suggested developing reporting guidelines for initiatives and actors outside the Convention.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Ghana and Nigeria, suggested the AWG-LCA will meet at COP 16 unless it has finished its work.
URUGUAY, also for ARGENTINA and BRAZIL, urged addressing inter-linkages within APA items.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, called for consideration of action-driven outcomes under the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation  and a decision to build and/or enhance national and regional climate centers.
The G-77/CHINA, LDCs, BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY and others called for longer commitment periods.
Recognizing the important role of industry in implementation of the FCCC, NEW ZEALAND and CANADA endorsed the development of a business consultative mechanism, although CANADA opposed open access to NGOs on the floor during negotiations.
SENEGAL, TANZANIA, and THAILAND supported inclusion of conservation.
BRAZIL, supported by COSTA RICA, favored Option C as in the original Chair’s text, or dropping the whole Article.
The US and AUSTRALIA objected to the inclusion of a reference already binding Parties to the inclusion of a list of options or a “menu” in the Chair’s draft conclusions.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, supported a readiness approach.
On  , the Russian Federation, the US, France, Italy, and Finland raised concern about a new approach related to “factoring-out emissions that would have occurred otherwise if the land remained unmanaged.” They noted that this is inconsistent with the Guidelines for other land uses and key IPCC concepts, and that introducing this would create serious problems, with the US saying that any consideration of what “would have occurred otherwise” is hypothetical in nature and should not be included in the reporting.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , underscored the need to maintain the substance and balance of the Paris outcome.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that NDCs are “full scope and differentiated,” and expressed concern that text on the transparency framework is undermining the nationally-determined nature of NDCs and introducing new obligations.
Brazil, the Philippines, Cuba, India, China, Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries , and others emphasized the importance of the Convention’s principles and commitments in defining a shared vision.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT and ALGERIA, suggested that proposals of P&amp;Ms should be accompanied by an analysis of their impacts on developing countries, in particular with regard to economic growth and international trade.
The Dominican Republic, for the G-77/CHINA, requested the establishment of a contact group.
Japan, Australia, Canada and several other developed countries emphasized the need for a coherent and comprehensive outcome in Copenhagen, and proposed coordination with the AWG-LCA.
NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and CANADA opposed a e2 80 9cbifurcated approach, e2 80 9d noting INDCs are already nationally-determined.
 Venezuela said it would help all parties to “feel a part...of the solutions provided in Cancun.” Lesotho, for the LDCs, underscored milestones related to: SBI’s extension of the LEG’s consideration of matters related to LDCs, capacity building, and technology transfer and the GCF.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, supported the existing schedule and suggested postponing the establishment of drafting groups.
Brazil, supported by China, proposed a short qualitative sentence conveying that economic development is closely related to emissions.
Maldives, for AOSIS, called for the COP Presidency to take up the issue of 1.5 c2 b0C “with some urgency” so as to ensure a substantive agreement on the 2013-2015 review.
Japan stressed the need for explicit discussion on uncertainties, and Co-Chair Field highlighted the link between the treatment of uncertainty and decision-making under uncertainty, with the UK also stressing the communication of uncertainty.
The US, the EU and others supported further exploring the idea of sectoral approaches.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said a permanent forum is necessary to report, evaluate and address the specific needs and concerns of non-Annex I countries.
Belgium, for the EU, said the goal for Cancun should be to make progress and achieve results on: further commitments for Annex I parties; continuation of the Kyoto Protocol architecture; and next steps with a view to a legally-binding outcome.
 The eleventh session of WGIII met from 5-8 May 2011 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and approved the Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation  and its SPM.
 The EU also suggested that the US proposal regarding establishment of long-term goals could be incorporated into the new EU submission and should be deleted.
Palau, for AOSIS, suggested focusing on streamlining application processes.
The G-77/CHINA, Ecuador, for the LMDCs, and other countries described finance as an enabler for ambition, with the G-77/CHINA suggesting Convention Article 4.7  is key to addressing CBDR.
The EU, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and others stressed the need to agree on LULUCF before determining targets.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, noted that decisions should: lock-in achievements to date; outline pathways for further progress; and galvanize immediate action by implementing the Copenhagen Accord.
Algeria, for the G-77/China, expressed concern regarding, inter alia: slow progress on Annex I review guidelines for biennial reports, national communications and annual inventories; and that no conclusion was reached on research and systematic observation.
INDIA, supported by BRAZIL, questioned the increased focus on LULUCF issues, stressing the large impact of Annex I parties’ fossil fuel emissions.
It was attended by ministers and officials from seventeen major economies as well as the UN, Barbados, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, New Zealand, Singapore and Spain.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/CHINA, observed that Annex I communications have provided little information on how policies and measures have impacted on developing countries.
On the consequences of the facilitative branch, the G-77/CHINA rejected an EU proposal that does not differentiate between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
During the ensuing discussion, Argentina asked if a system existed for the flow of resources to communities in Bangladesh, noting the country’s impressive budget allocation for adaptation.
The EU, China, Belize, Panama, Saudi Arabia, AOSIS and others proposed several specific workshops related to adaptation.
Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, proposed closing all the spin-off groups under the AWG-LCA and called for a “central forum” to help parties understand the status of negotiations.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of anchoring developed countries’ economy-wide targets, as well as mitigation actions submitted by developing countries, and urged further work on MRV and mitigation.
  Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, and Maldives, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , noted that the consultations will consider the Executive Committee  report and recommendations, rather than the COP’s authority over and guidance to the WIM.
The EU said implementation of Article 4.6 must not undermine the integrity of the Protocol, and Uganda cautioned that a decision would set a precedent.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said he expects issues requiring decisions in Paris to be finalized in Bonn, and expressed hope that the Adaptation Committee and the LEG, in collaboration with the GCF, determine how to support developing countries in accessing funding from the GCF for NAPs.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, stressed that additional resources should be mobilized for the implementation of NAPAs in LDCs.
With the Russian Federation, and opposed by Samoa, Palau, Micronesia and Brazil, she argued against binding consequences.
The EU, Costa Rica, Australia, Canada, and Brazil welcomed the operationalization of the platform, with the EU indicating readiness to consider establishing a facilitative working group and Costa Rica asking for balanced representation at the first multi-stakeholder workshop.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed that adaptation to climate change involves both adaptation to the impacts of climate change and adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
The US, supported by the EU, JAPAN, NORWAY and AUSTRALIA, supported the distribution of the Chairs’ draft for perusal and consideration.
On criteria to identify decision text, AILAC, the US and the EU mentioned timing, and levels of detail and flexibility.
Brazil, also for Argentina and Uruguay, supported roundtables on mitigation, adaptation communications and compliance.
NORWAY and JAPAN stressed the importance of an inclusive one-track process.
UGANDA identified the need for a simple institutional architecture, and CANADA supported a simple, effective and elastic mechanism.
CANADA noted that the chairs of the LDCs and the LDC Expert Group  were not present.
CHINA and GHANA underscored a sectoral approach to technology transfer.
The EU and UZBEKISTAN sought Global Environment Facility  resources to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their observational work.
ARGENTINA, supported by FINLAND and BENIN, said innovative approaches were needed and called for the establishment of small task forces in the run-up to COP-6.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, urged starting substantive negotiations.
On "questions of implementation," the US, G-77/CHINA, BRAZIL and INDIA opposed JAPAN 92s proposal to limit this concept to the mandatory requirements of the guidelines under Articles 5.1  and 7.2 .
 INDIA echoed the Republic of Korea’s apprehensions on the implications of P&amp;M on trade.
The Philippines, for G-77/China, lamented that their proposals were not clearly reflected in the revised negotiating text and, opposed by some developed countries, stressed the need to include attribution of proposals.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, preferred to retain the language without brackets.
Norway, supported by Switzerland, called for a single website or platform for all WGs and the TFI for outreach and communication purposes, as opposed to the current four different websites.
The panel consisted of delegates representing Bangladesh, Jamaica, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Uganda, and the European Commission.
Delegates agreed to include, in brackets, EU text encouraging parties to submit their views at SBSTA-13 on ToR and on the timing of the process, and the G-77/CHINA ef bf bds proposal to refer to holding a workshop in "early" 2001.
It contains statements and examples on Africa, Asia, Australia and New Zealand, Europe, Latin America, North America, Polar Regions and Small Islands.
Barbados, for AOSIS, proposed the establishment of an adaptation fund under the Convention, supporting “separate but coherent” funds under the Convention and the Protocol.
Chair Pachauri asked John Stone and Lucka Kajfez-Bogataj  to co-chair the Task Group, and invited Austria, South Africa, New Zealand, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Chile, Costa Rica, Belgium, and any other interested parties to participate.
China, India, Brazil and others preferred maintaining the current scope limited to afforestation and reforestation projects.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, stressed the importance of a formal space at COP 24 for the “critical” input of the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 c2 b0C.
The EU stressed low-cost mitigation opportunities in the IPCC WGIII findings, and SWITZERLAND emphasized WGIII’s message that current policies are not sufficient.
China, India, Sudan, and Saudi Arabia proposed structured submissions on priority themes for consideration at the workshop, while the EU and Norway said there was no need for further submissions.
ARGENTINA, supported by THAILAND and COLOMBIA, and opposed by MALAWI and VENEZUELA, proposed an additional meeting for each drafting group.
ARGENTINA, supported by VENEZUELA and CHILE, preferred a “gas-by-gas approach”.
BRAZIL and KENYA called for further discussions on the adverse impacts of climate change.
Canada, South Africa and China, opposed by Japan and the Republic of Korea, suggested deleting the option based on IPBES, stating that IPBES is untested as a model.
THAILAND, supported by the LDCs and SOUTH AFRICA, proposed referring this question to legal experts, with SOUTH AFRICA adding that the timing of entry into force was not a purely legal matter.
AOSIS proposed including reference to the CDM project cycle regarding a potential bottleneck in funding for the AF and BANGLADESH stressed the importance of ensuring funding.
The EU said that emissions permits could not replace P&amp;Ms. AUSTRALIA said that trading regimes would need to address equity concerns.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the UK, proposed deleting wording on the growth of 93annual 94 emissions.
The subgroup on Article 5.1 considered the second Draft Guidelines for National Systems under Article 5.1 of the Kyoto Protocol and submissions by the EU and the US.
The EU observed that the Marrakesh Accords took national circumstances into account, and Tuvalu noted that the proposal did not account for trade in unclean energy.
Colombia described the section on finance as “unacceptable” because the vulnerability criteria apply only to the LDCs and SIDS.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA cited the Russian proposal.
The EU and the LDCs noted emerging consensus on the need to carry TEMs beyond 2015.
 Tuvalu, speaking for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , called for future commitments under Article 3.9, and said efforts to streamline CDM should not compromise its environmental integrity.
Japan, the EU and other developed countries opposed a spin-off group on technology.
 HUNGARY, AUSTRALIA, AUSTRIA, CANADA, NORWARY and the NETHERLANDS noted the importance of outreach on the CCS Special Report.
The US supported negotiating reporting guidelines under the AWG-LCA, and, with AUSTRALIA, reiterated the need to reach agreement on an operational system this year.
Following informal consultations, participants agreed to address Saint Lucia e2 80 99s concern by: deleting the reference to regional risks to food security in the text; inserting a footnote stating that e2 80 9cprojected warming averaged over land is larger than global average warming for all RCP scenarios for the period 2081-2100 relative to 1986-2005 e2 80 9d; and referring to Figure SPM.7  for regional projections, as suggested by the Netherlands.
SENEGAL, with ARGENTINA, noted constraints on translation and dissemination of communications.
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN, suggested that countries with high GDP join Annex I.
Barbados, for AOSIS, said new resources should be channeled through the UNFCCC process and suggested a Convention adaptation fund, an insurance mechanism and a technology fund.
On the draft decision, the EU, Japan and Norway questioned the need for text on principles.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for a “solid and strong” definition of comparability, highlighting the Protocol as the basis for comparability assessment and identifying the need to define comparability through international negotiations rather than nationally.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted: ambition and the need for information on the ambition gap; and common accounting rules.
China, for the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, opposed by New Zealand, highlighted the need to define the scope of NDCs and reflect differentiation in the operational guidance as crosscutting issues.
Mali proposed deleting it, but was opposed by Austria, Australia, Switzerland, Spain, South Africa, Syria and others.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, supported a consolidated document that takes all parties e2 80 99 ideas on board.
Belgium, supported by the UK, Germany, Spain, Austria, Canada, and Ireland, opposed a footnote, arguing that the SPM should not contain this level of detail, and warning that the request for it bordered on interfering with the scientists’ mandated role to assess evidence in accordance with IPCC policies.
JAPAN and CANADA supported flexibility and said definitions used should be clearly and transparently reported.
Swaziland, for the African Group, stressed the need for general aggregate commitments, as well as specific commitments by individual parties, also calling for: accountability rules; a compliance system; and a review mechanism for commitments.
Co-Chair Rosland said there would be further consultations between the EU, US, NEW ZEALAND and SWITZERLAND to be reported back to the contact group on Friday.
Jamaica noted that CCS technology is not ready for use in an offset mechanism such as the CDM, while Brazil highlighted concerns relating to long-term permanence and host-country liabilities.
The EU, the US and New Zealand favored improved understanding and cooperation.
Brazil put forward the World Trade Organization and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as examples the climate regime could consider, and Colombia proposed that climate change be placed on the Security Council’s agenda.
Madagascar and Mali proposed focusing on gaps in coverage.
TUVALU, for AOSIS, stressed the need for social and environmental project impact assessments.
Many parties thanked the co-facilitators for their effort, with the EU and US suggesting the co-facilitators consolidate the proposals in one column.
BOLIVIA provided an overview of the World People’s Conference on Climate Change and the Rights of Mother Earth, held in Cochabamba, Bolivia in April 2010.
TUVALU, for the Alliance of Small Island States , highlighted the need for strong linkages with the 10-year review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States  and the World Conference on Disaster Reduction , and emphasized the importance of dialogue on adaptation.
CANADA stressed the principles of equity, common but differentiated responsibilities, precaution and “polluter pays.” Bahamas, for AOSIS, drew attention to the right to existence.
The African Group, opposed by Colombia, the EU, Japan, Norway and the Federated States of Micronesia, proposed deletion of reference to the Chairs of the two AWGs meeting to identify issues of common concern regarding Annex I parties’ commitments.
The EU and SWITZERLAND, opposed by AOSIS, BOTSWANA and IRAN, proposed that AIJ be credited retroactively.
Climate Action Network , supported by the Republic of Korea and the Friends World Committee for Consultation , expressed concern regarding the inclusion of geoengineering solutions.
Nigeria, India and Egypt expressed concern at Annex I countries’ linking progress under the AWG-KP to progress under the AWG-LCA.
The G-77/CHINA, SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA and SUDAN proposed including attributions in the text.
Japan proposed deleting the paragraph, opposed by the African Group and Mexico, who underscored lack of agreement on the scope of INDCs.
JAPAN, SAUDI ARABIA, ALGERIA, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, SYRIA, NIGERIA, LIBYA and others, opposed by GRENADA and TUVALU, stressed the importance of including CCS under the CDM.
The EU, Colombia, for AILAC, and NORWAY suggested the 8 June version of the streamlined and consolidated text be used to move discussions forward.
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar argued against addressing emissions from aviation and maritime bunker fuels, with Saudi Arabia stating that Article 2.2 of the Protocol would have to be amended before discussion on this issue could take place.
Argentina noted successful measures undertaken by the UK and Germany to reduce emissions and highlighted continuing emissions increases in the US.
 The Russian Federation stated that the AOSIS proposal lacks significant scientific basis.
Belarus, supported by the US, Canada, China and Australia, asked for more time to assess the revised proposal.
Austria suggested that now may not be the appropriate time for a substantial review of the rules, while China proposed that 2008, being the start of the new IPCC Bureau and after the release of the AR4, might be an appropriate time.
Belgium, Sweden, Hungary, Iceland, Finland, Cuba and others emphasized the need to address energy efficiency.
 Canada, Australia and Japan emphasized participation by all major emitters and underlined the need to consider national circumstances.
BRAZIL, with CHINA, supported a return to Chair’s original text on regional distribution.
COLOMBIA, opposed by KUWAIT and SAUDI ARABIA, suggested using the Secretariat 92s Note on the WTO for future discussion on this issue.
The US and Japan emphasized ongoing actions.
The Netherlands, supported by Saudi Arabia and others, asked to discuss the proposals in more detail, particularly on how to handle regional issues.
The Czech Republic, speaking as the incoming EU presidency, noted the agreement among EU leaders on measures to combat climate change reached earlier in the day at a meeting in Brussels, Belgium, and emphasized the EU’s commitment to a Copenhagen agreement.
The EU, supported by NORWAY, proposed adding “empty lines” to invite new countries.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed that adaptation to climate change involves both adaptation to the impacts of climate change and adaptation to the impacts of response measures.
He expressed solidarity with the people of the Philippines, as did BOLIVIA, who stated that the current situation in that country is “a testimony of what can be expected to take place more frequently.” BOLIVIA cautioned against “empty promises” and described the low level of ambition as a “death sentence” to some people.
A number of countries, including Kenya, for the African Group, stressed the nationally-determined nature of NDCs.
TANZANIA, for the LDCs, underscored the need to operationalize the LDC Fund in the short term to support immediate and urgent needs.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stated that the WIM review should ensure that the mechanism operates as effectively as possible.
 TANZANIA, for LDCs, said that LDCs still need to resolve outstanding issues on funding for the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action.
CHILE, the LDCs, TURKEY and PALAU called for anchoring the GCF in the 2015 agreement.
Protocol Ratification: Numerous Parties supported the Protocol 92s entry into force by Rio+10 in 2002 including, inter alia: BULGARIA, CARICOM, the EU, FRANCE, GERMANY, HAITI, IRELAND, ITALY, JAPAN, SPAIN, SWEDEN, and the UK.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, supported focusing negotiations on issues that could be agreed and reaching a balanced agreement.
On the table itself, delegates also agreed to changes proposed by GERMANY and others on what is meant by 93market maturity, 94 and by JAPAN and KOREA on the inclusion of reference to the two types of ocean storage: direct injection 93dissolution type 94 and direct injection 93lake type.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA and MEXICO favored retaining the option of introducing emissions trading on the basis of NAMAs.
On   on Kyoto units, Ukraine, the Russian Federation and others supported no restrictions on banking beyond the second commitment period, while the LDCs, AOSIS, Sudan and others preferred extending current restrictions to the subsequent commitment periods.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, noted that the structure and language of the AOSIS draft protocol accords with the Convention.
Belize, for the Alliance of Small Island States , said his group was working toward embedding their proposals within those of the G-77/China.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, expressed disappointment that some issues could not be resolved at this session.
The EU, opposed by Kenya, proposed a draft study to identify key policy-relevant research issues to be communicated to the research community.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Iran and Iraq, preferred more explicit language reflecting their objection.
The EU, with AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed it as the GEF would not be able to provide the support the IPCC required.
Delegates continued to propose changes, and Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and Bolivia requested bracketing paragraphs 3-5, which refer to the assumption of QELROs, while Kenya and Nicaragua proposed language to strengthen the paragraphs.
The UAE and ARGENTINA stressed the importance of enhancing existing arrangements.
AAU AOSIS AWG-LCA  AWG-KP  BAP  CCS CDM COP COP/MOP GEF GWPs ICAO IMO IPCC IPRs  LDCs LULUCF MRV NAMAs QELROs RD&amp;D REDD  REDD-plus  SIDS SBI SBSTA UNFCCC
Many parties, such as China, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, Bolivia, and the African Group, stressed that this mandate is limited to consideration of amendments to Article 3.9 .
Belgium requested, and the plenary agreed, that the IPCC-26 report should include the IPCC 92s decision to subject the report on the meeting on new emissions scenarios that took place in the Netherlands in September 2007 to peer review, and that the cover of that latter report will make explicit mention of the peer review.
Barbados supported further implementation of decision 1/CP.10 by: considering the implementation of adaptation activities within the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of SIDS; promoting the review and strengthening of LDCs’ NAPAs; and increased financial support for national institutional arrangements on adaptation.
INDIA and CHINA underscored the need for information on how to achieve temperature goals.
SOUTH AFRICA, with the COOK ISLANDS, called for reference to the most vulnerable Parties.
The US suggested moving paragraph 79 on guiding principles under contributions/commitments/actions, with Bolivia, for G-77/CHINA noting its proposal, option 5, belongs under guiding principles.
In paragraph VII, on requests to the Secretariat, CHINA said that the G-77 and China approach paper was the only paper submitted by non-Annex I Parties.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said Paris must deliver an agreement that creates regular updates for ambition.
Kuwait opposed the inclusion of air and ground transportation and highlighted CCS as a possible improvement to the Clean Development Mechanism , and, with Saudi Arabia, opposed sectoral crediting.
Guatemala, for AILAC, supported by NORWAY and the US, suggested asking facilitators to propose bridging text, which the G-77/CHINA suggested be captured in another document.
SAUDI ARABIA and CHINA suggested that the IPCC Report could be taken up at COP 14.
Mexico, Canada, Kenya and many others proposed exploring options besides government contributions, with Germany and others stressing the need to develop eligibility criteria if this option were to be pursued.
The EU, Switzerland, and Canada indicated commitment to scaling up climate finance to the US$100 billion goal by 2020.
After joint SBI/SBSTA consideration and extensive contact group debates on the flexibility mechanisms, delegates could only agree to a compilation document containing proposals from the G-77/China, the EU and the US on the issues for discussion and frameworks for implementation.
INDONESIA and GHANA highlighted technology transfer and sustainable funding to promote new technologies.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, called for a “comprehensive and durable” outcome in Copenhagen and identified the need for coherence between the AWGs.
Sudan, Kenya, and Algeria disagreed, with the Coordinating Lead Authors elaborating on various measures of drought.
  On Thursday, Norway, Japan, Canada and Belgium requested adding reference to impacts from ocean acidification, and Bolivia to economic development.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, supported by COLOMBIA and BOLIVIA, repeatedly objected to proceeding without inclusion of the issue of extending the share of proceeds as a “big ticket” item.
The LDCs stressed that financial flows should be scaled up to 1.5% of the GDP of developed countries and that 70% of adaptation funds should be earmarked for LDCs, SIDS and African countries.
Participants were briefed by speakers from a number of countries on a range of topics, including: reducing fluorinated gases in the EU; US actions on non-CO2 greenhouse gases, including the Methane to Markets Partnership; a participatory approach to mitigation of non-CO2 gases in the Netherlands; non-CO2 emissions reductions in the UK; methane recovery and utilization from agriculture sources in China; New Zealand ef bf bds approach to mitigate greenhouse gases in the agriculture sector; non-CO2 livestock production in Uruguay; and greenhouse gas emissions from German landfills.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by GHANA, agreed to the proposal, but requested that other text in the section not be deleted.
Saudi Arabia and the G-77/China highlighted the fact that FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 and Protocol Article 3.14 were addressed separately under the BAPA, and called for two draft decisions.
Noting that “we are heading towards dangerous territory” by failing to set a pathway toward keeping the global temperature rise below 1.5°C, Swaziland, for the African Group, said that the Doha decisions are in the right direction despite concerns on finance for implementing the Convention between now and 2020.
Mexico, Indonesia and India suggested creating a multilateral fund under the Convention with foreseeable and scalable contributions by developed countries and a transparent and inclusive governance structure.
CANADA suggested moving certain paragraphs on financing to the contact group on finance and, with AUSTRALIA, expressed interest in the South African proposal on the life-cycle of NAMAs.
The US suggested that non-Annex I national communica-tions should be submitted no more than four years after the submission of their initial communications, and that LDCs should submit their communications every five years.
The AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and TANZANIA called for work on the CDM.
The US, INDONESIA and SOUTH AFRICA supported the principle of inclusiveness.
Qatar, Switzerland, the US, the EU, Egypt and Indonesia posed questions on fossil fuel imports, BAU assumptions and international transport emissions.
AOSIS expressed concern regarding the risks involved in carbon dioxide capture and storage, and Libya said more research was needed.
On paragraph 128 on the sources of finance, based on consolidation proposals by the G-77/CHINA, the EIG and South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, parties agreed to, respectively: delete option 3 in favor of option 6, both on criteria for sources of finance; merge option 2 into option 1 sub-option b to avoid duplication; and delete option 5 except a sentence on the replenishment of the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, which is to be moved to the section on institutions.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, underlined: that transparency should apply to all aspects, especially MOI; and the need for differentiation in addressing mitigation, stressing the necessity to link actions and support.
The LDCs, supported by the US, asked that both the informal note and parties’ submissions be used.
On institutions for adaptation, the G-77/China, Switzerland, Costa Rica, for AILAC, Nauru, for AOSIS, the EU, Norway, Japan, New Zealand, Brazil and Turkey called for building on existing institutions and mechanisms, such as the Cancun Adaptation Framework.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, with GUATEMALA, BRAZIL, SINGAPORE and EGYPT, highlighted the group e2 80 99s effort to find common ground on various options around the areas identified by the ADP Co-Chairs in the morning session and noted they have proposals to put forward.
BRAZIL, TANZANIA, SOUTH AFRICA, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, SIERRA LEONE, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, MEXICO and others highlighted the importance of addressing capacity building needs and, with SWITZERLAND, supported the first option on the scope, which states that capacity building shall be enhanced with regard to the building blocks of the BAP and all aspects of the Convention, as well as emerging needs.
However, Germany speaking for the EU, and Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported separate consideration.
  PAPUA NEW GUINEA, with the US, GHANA, AUSTRALIA, INDONESIA, the EU, GUYANA and SWITZERLAND, said Appendix 2 of the Cancun Agreements  should form the basis for discussions.
The Secretariat explained that proposals had been received from: Australia; Belarus; Bolivia, for several countries; Colombia; Japan; the EU; New Zealand; Papua New Guinea; the Philippines; China, for several non-Annex I countries; and two from Tuvalu.
AUSTRALIA, BRAZIL, NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN, CHINA, SINGAPORE, INDIA, SAUDI ARABIA, AOSIS and several others opposed both multiplication and discount factors.
In contrast, Sweden and Saudi Arabia supported possibly merging Working Groups, moving impacts to WGI and adaptation to WGIII, with a view to allowing for more integrated assessments.
Saudi Arabia then proposed inserting the full text of Principle 10 directly into the decision, but Switzerland and others objected.
The EU called for a work programme to ensure proper implementation of Protocol Article 2.1 , and Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the G-77/China, highlighted the need to minimize the impact of Annex I Parties 92 P&amp;Ms on developing countries.
On  , AOSIS, the LDCs and Colombia supported retaining the option in the context of COP/MOP decisions.
The Umbrella Group opposed Saudi Arabia 92s proposal and sought more information on the capacity building proposal.
Norway, with New Zealand, called for revisiting previous TEM topics and adding sessions on carbon pricing and removal of fossil fuel subsidies.
SAUDI ARABIA highlighted the tight schedule for an intersessional consultation, while ITALY offered to host this meeting in Rome.
Belgium and the UK called for the preservation of all relevant and practical information on tools, good practices, and materials developed during AR6 to help jump start the work on AR7.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by AOSIS and AILAC, stressed that one day of the transparency roundtable should be dedicated to transparency of support.
On separation of natural versus human-induced effects, SWITZERLAND, opposed by CANADA, supported a negotiated threshold to deal with the human-induced effects, which could also be adjusted to deal with issues of uncertainty and permanence.
During the closing SBI plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, expressed disappointment that the benefits of the NEEDS for Climate Change Project could not be extended.
On allowing CCS under the CDM, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN, NIGERIA, KUWAIT, IRAN, the EU, NEW ZEALAND, GHANA and others supported retaining the option, while AOSIS, ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, COLOMBIA, the GAMBIA and others preferred no decision.
Solomon Islands, with Nicaragua, El Salvador and Ecuador, called for an explicit reference to loss and damage.
VENEZUELA and NICARAGUA stressed that countries should not be able to select beneficial elements of the multilateral process, while neglecting difficult elements.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, called for SBSTA work on this item and a possible expert meeting before COP-4.
  The Republic of Korea proposed creating a “grey” literature pool through suggestions from IPCC focal points, and Sudan highlighted National Adaptation Programmes of Action.
Norway, Kuwait, Canada, the EU, Saudi Arabia, Japan and others, opposed by Brazil, Micronesia and others, supported inclusion of CCS projects under the CDM.
  In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiation sessions: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
The EU, with the US, NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY, AUSTRALIA and CANADA, opposed using the input document as the basis for further discussions, saying many of its elements are outside the mandate of workstream 2.
Australia and New Zealand supported setting aside Secretariat funds for the IPCC.
Switzerland called for commitments by all countries to provide resources for climate change policies and, with the US and the LDCs, for all countries in a position to do so to provide support to those who require it.
He underscored that developed countries have yet to meet their Convention or Protocol obligations regarding mitigation and means of implementation , which the EU and Australia disputed in their cases.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, urged extension and expansion of the mandate of the LDC Expert Group , lamented the co-financing requirement for the implementation of national adaptation programmes of action  and called for implementation of all elements of the LDC work programme.
On Tuesday, 2 December, the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underscored the need for financial and technical resources.
  In the contact group, SAUDI ARABIA and KUWAIT opposed discussing international aviation and maritime emissions, stressing IMO and ICAO as the right fora.
On improving regional distribution, SAUDI ARABIA reiterated their proposal that the provision exempting SIDS from payment of the registration fee and share of proceeds, as well as that establishing a quota for projects hosted in LDCs, SIDS and African countries, should be extended to all developing countries with fewer than ten registered projects.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the G-77/China had not had enough time to consider the text fully.
New Zealand, with the US, argued that a JI project should be subject to CDM-type scrutiny only where a Party does not comply with Articles 5 and 7, and where non-compliance with both articles impacts the project.
AOSIS reminded delegates that the modalities under discussion are to apply in the first commitment period only, and, with the EU, said that it did not support a stand-alone insurance approach.
Nauru, on behalf of AOSIS, called for the workstream on ambition to be prioritized in order to reach agreement on a new protocol, and opposed a separate roundtable on principles, saying these should not be discussed in isolation.
  Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, supported streamlining discussions under the SBI and stressed the “critical importance” to the Copenhagen outcome of high quality and timely reporting of inventories, policies and measures.
On transparency, the AFRICAN GROUP raised concerns about brackets around “flexibility options,” stressed tracking progress on all elements of the NDCs, and, with AOSIS, called for guidance on reporting loss and damage.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over the lack of voluntary contributions to the Adaptation Fund, and stressed that national adaptation plans must be a viable and implementation-driven process.
The Financial Task Team , co-chaired by New Zealand and Maldives, convened throughout the meeting, and presented the revised decision  for consideration by the Panel on Wednesday.
Iceland called for the application and transfer of existing technologies, and South Africa called for demonstrable leadership by Annex I Parties.
Singapore noted that the list of types of action for the registry is insufficient, and Saudi Arabia pointed out that his country’s proposal on a supporting and accrediting mechanism is not reflected adequately.
On the  , Colombia highlighted the benefits of a mid-term review of commitments, and South Africa stressed that such reviews should only lead to stronger commitments.
The UK, with NEW ZEALAND, suggested that since a procedure could not guarantee compliance, the objective "to prevent non-compliance with commitments under the Protocol" be deleted.
Burkina Faso, for the Africa Group, emphasized the need for the translation and wide dissemination of technical reports.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underlined the need for urgent action and for equal treatment of mitigation and adaptation.
CHINA drew attention to the fact that budget periods appeared under each of the options, and recalled the G-77/China’s objection to this concept.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged focus on outstanding substantive issues to ensure that the remaining time until COP/MOP 6 is used effectively to reach agreement on Annex I parties’ emission reduction targets.
Belgium, for the EU, called for an ambitious post-2012 regime and emphasized preference for a single legally-binding agreement incorporating essential elements of the Kyoto Protocol.
He affirmed Japan 92s commitment to assisting LDCs.
The Bahamas, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested, inter alia, emphasizing the importance of addressing fundraising strategies and recognizing the Adaptation Fund was established at COP 7.
ZIMBABWE, for the Africa Group, called for increased support for adaptation projects.
The UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, JAPAN, the US and MEXICO proposed categories of convergence to structure the discussion on the technology section of the agreement.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for consideration of how the SBSTA can advance decisions on information, as well as scientific and technological matters.
Japan and the EU supported a role for the GEF, while China suggested that this role be temporary.
The US, supported by Canada and New Zealand, and opposed by Saudi Arabia, proposed that the Secretariat produce an information paper on links between the TAR and other agenda items.
  Ministers from Brazil, China, India and South Africa  convened from 20-21 September 2012, in Brasilia, Brazil.
NORWAY, CANADA and the US suggested that goals be decided before developing institutional arrangements.
With India and Bolivia, he stressed the need to clearly indicate in the annex that MOI support is to be provided by developed countries to developing countries.
AOSIS stressed the urgency of the question of insurance and, with the MARSHALL ISLANDS, viewed the additions to the agenda item title as technical rather than substantive.
The AFRICAN GROUP, with BOLIVIA, highlighted traditional knowledge.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the EU and JAPAN, supported including this item on the agenda.
Mali, for the African Group, suggested work leading to a technical synthesis and a summary for policy makers to inform ministerials.
The US, supported by Japan, Australia and Canada, introduced both draft language for a decision on JI and an appendix on criteria .
  On this issue , CHINA, JAPAN and others lamented delays in CDM project registration and an increase in review requests by the CDM Executive Board.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed the new text as balanced and party-owned, but lamented that parties could not complete the reading of much of the decision text.
Maldives, for AOSIS, Peru, for AILAC, Indonesia, and India said new submissions were not necessary at this point.
NEW ZEALAND, with the EU and the US, stressed improving reporting of bunker emissions for consistency and comparability.
The Russian Federation and Ukraine, opposed by the G-77/China, proposed changing the draft conclusions so that the matter would be further considered at SB 26 instead of SB 25.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the meeting should delineate the elements of the 2015 agreement and identify what can be elaborated in subsequent decisions.
Noting the political signal from Bangkok is “not encouraging,” Egypt, for the Arab Group, said agreeing on the second commitment period is the prerequisite for negotiations leading to Durban.
Regarding the preparation of national greenhouse gas inventories, the US, opposed by NORWAY, urged that a reference to Protocol Articles 5 , 7  and 8  should be included.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, lamented that the Co-Chairs had not fulfilled their mandate to produce a balanced text.
The Czech Republic, Monaco, and Slovakia have applied to become Annex I Parties.
Noting that the text “manages to strike a delicate balance between very difficult issues,” South Africa, for BASIC, said the outcome provides a solid foundation for work in 2015.
Sudan, supported by Djibouti, asked that potential impacts on food security also be mentioned.
Ecuador, for the ALBA, expressed concern with the lack of fulfillment of the legal mandate to achieve ambitious emission reductions.
MALI, for the LDCs, underscored a simplified operating procedure of the Fund enabling project approval within four months, and employment of local and regional expertise.
The US, supported by TUVALU and the EU, suggested identifying elements unique to REDD-plus, with the US highlighting the importance of participatory processes and environmental and social safeguards.
TANZANIA and MALI called for REDD methodologies to consider benefits for local communities.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, opposed considering accounting, suggesting it is better placed under transparency.
Bolivia, on behalf of ALBA, said they are ready to work constructively towards a second commitment period.
TUNISIA and the US outlined national actions to address climate change.
TUVALU, AOSIS and others proposed a five-year commitment period from 2013-17.
The Republic of Korea, for the Environmental Integrity Group, emphasized the importance of publicly funded technologies and support to the private sector.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of recognizing developing countries’ development priorities.
Egypt, for the Group of 77 and China , noted concern that no substantive conclusions were reached on the CGE, and highlighted the importance of renewing the Group’s terms of reference at COP 24.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the ADP text is party-driven and party-owned.
ARGENTINA, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed concern that this group was not mandated by the COP-6 Bureau and was therefore not established using the accepted process.
Chile, for Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Panama, called for means of implementation to address both mitigation and adaptation.
NORWAY and SINGAPORE called for a broadened focus on governance issues without challenging national sovereignty.
Maldives, for the LDCs, highlighted the work of the LDC Expert Group, funding for adaptation, and management of the LDC Fund.
Ecuador, China, Cuba and Uganda, for the LDCs, called for submissions on the issue.
The G-77/China, the US, Japan and Australia doubted the value of such a forum, and also expressed concerns about funding requirements, and the effects on the time available to consider other agenda items.
On the draft COP decision on principles, nature and scope of the mechanisms, CANADA and JAPAN, opposed by the EU, G-77/CHINA and SAMOA, proposed deleting text emphasizing that environmental integrity is to be achieved through sound modalities, rules and guidelines for the mechanisms, strict principles and rules governing LULUCF, and a strong compliance regime.
BRAZIL, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that he would not be prepared to discuss LULUCF issues before Wednesday.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, underscored that all developing countries face the negative consequences of response measures, including those affecting trade.
Maldives, for the Least Developed Countries , highlighted the Adaptation Fund, suggesting application of the levy to other flexible mechanisms, not just the CDM, and to international maritime and air transport.
Chair Pachauri proposed, and delegates agreed, to set up a Task Group on the rules of procedure, co-chaired by the US and Mauritius, to report back to the Panel at the next session.
WEOG nominated Dan Reifsnyder , Asia nominated Thailand, and both nominations were accepted.
The G-77/CHINA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION highlighted the need for additional negotiating time between Bonn and Doha while acknowledging financial constraints.
The Environmental Integrity Group, Japan, the EU, Australia and the US supported the global goal of halving emissions by 2050, and the EU suggested that developed countries must decrease their emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
SWITZERLAND and NEW ZEALAND said adoption should be through a COP-6 decision adopting an agreement becoming an integral part of the Protocol, while the EU favored the option whereby the agreement would be adopted at COP-7.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reminded parties distancing themselves from the Protocol that the flexibility mechanisms are an integral part of it, and emphasized the need to continue the CDM and the Adaptation Fund.
  Hugh Sealy, Grenada, outlined AOSIS’ expectations that the framework: define relationships between the UNFCCC and other approaches, and between market and non-market approaches; deliver real mitigation benefits; and not allow countries to evade their obligations under the Convention.
India, supported by Saudi Arabia, China, and several other G-77/China Parties and opposed by the EU, Russian Federation, South Africa, AOSIS and several Annex I Parties, suggested that the proposal be amended stating proceedings of the Seminar will be made available by the Secretariat and are not intended to lead to a process for further commitments by developing countries.
BOLIVIA, with INDIA and CHINA, cautioned against internationally imposed criteria conflicting with national laws.
INDIA and CANADA also favored drawing heavily from existing institutions.
Switzerland, with the US, asked how remote sensing could be combined with the bottom-up monitoring system of the Paris Agreement.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, called for rebalancing progress on agenda items, and holding joint sessions on related items.
Japan said that the chapter should include a review of the feasibility of carbon storage options and consider carbon removal and storage, and, with Spain, expressed concern about the political associations with the term “accounting.” Spain cautioned against overstating the mitigation potential from forestry.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , urged parties to identify and focus on issues on which concrete decisions can be made in Cancun.
Colombia, for the Independent Alliance of Latin America and the Caribbean , called for a coherent and balanced set of recommendations for the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement .
On producing a list of speakers, AUSTRIA and BELGIUM said experts must be clear about the capacity in which they are speaking.
Algeria, for the AFRICA GROUP, said the need for further information is no excuse for inaction.
 , Tanzania, supported by Botswana, Trinidad and Tobago, South Africa, Algeria, Egypt, the Bahamas, and Zambia, said the “heavy precipitation” language in the paragraph was “unbalanced” when contrasted to the stronger “extreme” event language in subsection B1.1.
On other possible institutional matters, BRAZIL raised: common timeframes for NDCs, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS; recognition of developing countries’ adaptation efforts; initial guidance to the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism; and training, public awareness and participation.
CHINA, supported by BRAZIL, requested that the importance of context be included in the Facilitator’s report.
On the Convention principles, the Umbrella Group, the EU and Colombia expressed the view that Convention principles should be seen in an “evolving context,” noting the need to discuss further the principle of equity in terms of fairness and reflecting changing realities.
Saudi Arabia, supported by Egypt, called for inserting reference to potential capacity-building and financial needs required for utilization of the 2019 Refinement.
The Seychelles, for AOSIS, called for identifying barriers and scaling up resources for pre-2020 action, particularly through the GCF.
BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA, and SERBIA and MONTENEGRO indicated it could not support Croatia 92s greenhouse gas emissions inventory adjustments for the 1990 base year.
  GHANA then proposed adjourning the meeting to allow the G-77/China time to coordinate, but the Co-Chairs suggested hearing comments on the other paragraphs first.
  On improving access to the CDM by specified host parties, Senegal, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported a geographically balanced system of quotas.
Noting the “painful reality of climate change impacts,” Liberia, for the LDCs, called for urgency in order to complete the AWG-KP’s work in 2010.
GERMANY reported that legal capacity would be conferred by the end of the year to enable the Board to operationalize direct access and that a Memorandum of Understanding between Germany and the Board would be signed in Cancun.
Supported by the EU and BRAZIL, he indicated that it is important to learn lessons from fast-start finance.
Responding to US concerns, delegates accepted an EU proposal to merge paragraphs 10  and 11 .
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, called for development of performance indicators for monitoring and evaluating capacity building.
AUSTRALIA, with the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by SAMOA, PALAU, the FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA and BRAZIL, argued against binding consequences.
The UMBRELLA GROUP opposed Saudi Arabia 92s proposal and sought more information on the capacity building proposal.
Australia and Canada said methodologies exist to deal with problems related to sinks.
JAPAN and the EU stressed the need to balance adaptation and mitigation, while INDIA said focus should be on adaptation.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, highlighted the Protocol as the most important legal instrument addressing climate change and called on Annex I countries to respect their legal commitment to a second commitment period.
SWITZERLAND and CANADA called for expedited funding for national communications.
On an interim CDM, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, and NORWAY underlined the need for a prompt start.
Underscoring environmental integrity, Nauru, for AOSIS, stated that AOSIS “has not lost faith,” but will continue working to ensure that “we leave with something better than what we came with.”
 Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: consideration of action-driven outcomes under the NWP; a decision to build and/or enhance national and regional climate centers; and a decision to strengthen systematic observation networks.
On SRES and stabilization scenarios, France, Germany, Austria, Spain, Norway and others called for taking into account the speed of warming and adding information on pre-industrial levels.
In the final COP Plenary on Friday, 1 November, Namibia, supported by Senegal, Gambia and Canada, proposed renaming the work programme the "New Delhi Work Programme."
Algeria, for the African Group, observed that Cancun has restored confidence in the multilateral system and expressed support for the texts.
CHILE and CARICOM called for a definition of climate finance.
NEW ZEALAND noted slow progress on the development of technical methodologies and, supported by JAPAN, CANADA and MALAYSIA, suggested further technical review.
On the other side, the EU, as well as developing countries such as Tuvalu, Samoa, China and Jamaica, want sinks to be excluded from the CDM.
Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, emphasized the importance of the issue, while the EU and Japan stressed the need to avoid duplicating work under the SBSTA agenda item on Protocol Article 2.3
Georg Borsting, Joint Implementation  Supervisory Committee Chair, noted that most of the 129 JI projects are in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Bulgaria and involve renewable energy, methane and energy efficiency.
SAUDI ARABIA supported South Africa 92s building blocks approach and highlighted the importance of financing and the need for technology transfer.
 Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, said Durban must deliver an outcome that ensures the fulfillment of the Convention’s ultimate objective.
SAINT LUCIA, supported by AILAC, opposed, stressing the long-term temperature goal should be in the agreement.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA noted that a legally-binding agreement needs to be adopted as soon as practically possible and clarified that they did not support the AOSIS proposal.
Australia supported stabilization at 450 ppm or less, while the Federated States of Micronesia preferred stabilization at as far below 350 ppm as possible, noting this has been supported by AOSIS and a number of vulnerable countries.
The EU emphasized coordination with other post-2012 processes, especially the Article 9 review, and AUSTRALIA, CANADA and others proposed mentioning the Bali roadmap.
Saudi Arabia called for addressing economic diversification to build resilience and Egypt highlighted vulnerability assessments and developing countries’ urgent needs.
The EU, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and the Russian Federation rejected the oral amendment.
Ecuador, Dominican Republic and Cuba called for greater participation by developing countries in the organization of the expert meeting.
The BANGLADESH CENTRE FOR ADVANCED STUDIES, IBERO-AMERICAN NETWORK OF CLIMATE CHANGE OFFICES, the PACIFIC REGION ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME, the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CENTRE and the INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OF AFRICA COORDINATING COMMITTEE reported on regional adaptation projects.
The Philippines, supported by Ecuador, Bolivia, Malaysia, Argentina, Iran, China and others, opposed this.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for a legally-binding agreement that would sit alongside a Kyoto Protocol second commitment period, stressing that “Cancun must not compromise the future.” She welcomed the Chair’s paper, expressing satisfaction with some elements of it, such as elements on adaptation.
Nigeria, for the African Group, highlighted the importance of discussing potential consequences of response measures.
The US said the US Country Studies Program was one of the first to carry out vulnerability assessments, and FRANCE noted efforts to undertake vulnerability assessments of French coastal zones.
 ARGENTINA noted there was no communication from the EU listed in the document.
Brazil, supported by Peru and opposed by Japan and Saudi Arabia, proposed specifying a cap of 30% on the use of the flexibility mechanisms.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, expressed concern regarding the challenges impeding expedited implementation of projects identified in national adaptation programmes of action , particularly the requirement for co-financing, saying this is inappropriate for the implementation of the urgent activities identified in NAPAs.
On  , parties discussed the proposals to limit the carry-over surplus by AOSIS, the African Group and Brazil, which were consolidated into a new proposal by the G-77/China, in which 2.5% of the second commitment period forms the ceiling of carry-over.
Uganda highlighted the need to address data gaps, particularly in Africa, and China and Panama emphasized regional capacity.
Malawi, for the LDCs, lamented that text on “encouraging policy signals by governments” does not address provision of climate finance.
BRAZIL, opposed by SWITZERLAND, proposed new text, pending approval by the G-77/China, on confirmation of involvement by low-income communities prior to validation.
In the CMA plenary, Venezuela and India asked that a footnote be added to the decision paragraph stating that the COP takes note of the resolutions adopted at the 39th session of the International Civil Aviation Organization  Assembly to reflect their reservations and concerns about ICAO 39’s resolutions.
In discussing integration across hazards, participants highlighted successful experiences in the Caribbean, Argentina, Bangladesh, the UK and the Maldives.
Noting that, in terms of the UNFCCC, adaptation is the priority, MICRONESIA, for AOSIS, stressed the vulnerability of SIDS and underlined, inter alia, the need for building capacity, addressing insurance challenges, and improving access to funding.
Regarding the need to address accounting of LULUCF activities, CANADA, supported by NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA and JAPAN, proposed referring to the IPCC report.
The Democratic Republic of Congo, for the African Group, highlighted that progress in Panama was uneven among the different issues under negotiation.
Mexico, AOSIS and Tuvalu suggested considering regional TEMs.
Costa Rica, for SICA, urged for concrete results on levels of ambition on mitigation, adaptation, means of implementation, transparency, MRV of action and support, and loss and damage.
With SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, VENEZUELA and NIGERIA, MAURITANIA objected to this proposal.
India, for BRAZIL, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA AND CHINA , noted the importance of the transparency framework, including of support.
SAUDI ARABIA and NICARAGUA opposed the inclusion of reforestation of lands with forest in exhaustion under the CDM.
A sentence on mitigation policy possibly devaluing fossil fuel assets and reducing revenues was approved, but the UK, Sweden and Slovenia called for the deletion of a subsequent sentence on mitigation scenarios being associated with reduced revenues from coal and oil trade, noting it was repetitive.
Sweden, for the EU, stressed that a new agreement should build on the Kyoto Protocol.
Nigeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested focusing on financing required for the preparation of national communications and implementation of the CGE’s activities.
ARGENTINA, supported by SWITZERLAND and SAUDI ARABIA, proposed requesting the Secretariat to compile information on existing regional climate circulation models, methodologies for determining vulnerability, and methodologies for formulating adaptation projects.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, for Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand and Venezuela, said termination of the AWG-LCA in Doha should only occur after a successful agreed outcome on all elements of the BAP mandate.
BULGARIA, for CG-11, CYPRUS and MALTA, noted the special circumstances of these individual countries in fulfilling their commitments.
NIGERIA said the paragraph should remain as is because numerous delegations had specifically emphasized no new commitments for developing countries and CHINA said that some proposals had attempted to introduce commitments for developing countries.
Morocco, supported by the UK, queried how an observer organization might have its status revoked.
Switzerland said that the TAR should be routinely considered in all agenda items and, opposed by the G-77/China, suggested that future annotated agendas should reference the TAR.
Morocco, in the capacity of the host of COP 22/CMP 12, thanked parties, in particular the African Group, for their trust, informing that the conference would take place in Marrakesh, from 7-18 November 2016.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted progress on REDD and the UNFCCC reporting guidelines.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries , called for the AWG-LCA to ensure a fair outcome on adaptation financing.
The G-77/China suggested replacing references to GWP in the conclusions with “GWP/GTP.” New Zealand, the EU, Norway, Canada, and Switzerland supported using the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for reporting during the second commitment period, but said further methodological work may be necessary.
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, proposed that the TEMs also identify the negative impacts of response measures.
5-6, and FCCC/TP/2008/5) was first considered by the SBI on 2 December, when the G-77/China highlighted gaps in implementing capacity building, particularly in relation to enhancing capacity for implementing CDM projects in Africa, LDCs and SIDS.
Many parties supported mandating technical workshops or papers, opposed by others, including Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, who noted technical work would be premature.
Grenada, for AOSIS, said all elements of a legally-binding agreement guaranteeing the viability of SIDS and other vulnerable developing countries are embedded in the existing text, but that political will is required to realize an agreement.
Language proposed by Sudan and US on projections concerning agricultural and food production was included.
NORWAY, the LMDCs and the AFRICAN GROUP supported a general anchoring provision.
 Algeria, speaking on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need to complete the work of the AWG-KP in line with the Bali Action Plan, in order to ensure that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods.
JAPAN and the EU opposed this and suggested considering the issue jointly with the SBI item on Protocol Article 3.14.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said the Kyoto Protocol is an important part of the work towards a comprehensive climate regime including all major economies.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the importance of measuring, reporting and verification  and the SBI’s role in implementing related decisions.
The EU encouraged Croatia to submit a consistent time series of emissions data using consistent methodologies for 1990-2001.
 The G-77/CHINA, supported by INDIA and CHINA, stressed the importance of this topic for all countries, and expressed deep concern over the continuing lack of progress and the fact that most technology transfer is being undertaken within the AIJ framework.
JAPAN, CANADA and the US stressed enabling private sector investment and low-carbon growth, with the EU and the US clarifying that private finance will not replace public finance.
With the US and HUNGARY, AUSTRALIA called for meaningful participation and future voluntary commitments appropriate to individual circumstances and with QATAR, NORWAY, PERU and SENEGAL stressed the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
ARGENTINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, highlighted reservations made to the ICAO resolution.
South Africa, for the African Group, called for the inclusion of three options on how to take forward work relating to the possible additional matter of modalities for communicating finance information in accordance with Agreement Article 9.5 .
 The US and BANGLADESH called for the launch of negotiations, with the US stressing the need to be specific about their substance.
Norway, Australia, Saudi Arabia and others supported the inclusion of CCS under the CDM, while Brazil and others expressed reservations.
Regarding guidance for accounting, many countries called for building on existing rules, with AILAC and NORWAY calling for specific rules on land use.
The US, with Australia, Slovenia, Norway, and Canada, supported the consideration of a multi-year work programme, and the streamlining of each session 92s agenda.
Austria, France, Italy, Spain and others supported two volumes but preferred a delivery in late 2014 along with the rest of the AR5.
Nauru, for AOSIS, emphasized that success in Doha requires an ambitious agreement on finance, and lamented lack of urgency and ambition across all negotiating tracks.
CANADA, the G-77/CHINA and others expressed concern that the Secretariat had combined both issues into a single document .
Australia, with the US, Canada, Japan and New Zealand, supported a broad approach to LULUCF issues, namely an open-ended policy dialogue.
The US stressed the importance of accounting methods, especially under the UNFCCC Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities, and, with JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, requested indication of those activities directly related to the Protocol.
The EU, supported by SWITZERLAND, suggested mapping issues being addressed under other bodies to avoid duplication.
Noting that the first commitment period is only an initial step, SWITZERLAND, for the Environmental Integrity Group, urged Parties to consider ways and means to address climate change challenges beyond 2012.
SYRIA supported having discussions on India’s proposals.
NORWAY and SWITZERLAND stressed the need to address governance issues and, with BOLIVIA, highlighted the need to incorporate indigenous peoples.
GHANA, supported by SENEGAL, proposed amendments to the Board’s rules of procedure to enable the Board to be represented by its Chair and Vice-Chair.
AUSTRALIA, supported by JAPAN and NORWAY, called for a broader discussion of what is happening globally, saying it is important to analyze the level of ambition of the “flood of international pledges” in the wake of Copenhagen.
SAUDI ARABIA said financial penalties were the best way to proceed, while CANADA queried how these could be enforced.
Germany, the UK, Belgium and others also supported including information of where stabilization actually occurs.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by CHINA, cautioned against focusing on peripheral areas of convergence and avoiding core issues.
The Philippines, for the G-77/China, Algeria, for the African Group, Cuba, Egypt, Indonesia, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, India and others, opposed by the US and the EU, called for establishing a spin-off group on finance.
The EU, supported by AUSTRALIA, JAPAN and the US, preferred to replace a list of information requests with a reference to a paragraph on identification of effects and impacts.
VENEZUELA, for the G-77/CHINA, said that the recent focus on the Protocol has meant that some UNFCCC issues have been neglected, particularly those relevant to developing countries.
Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, recalled recent findings by the IPCC and called for strengthened mitigation and adaptation efforts, taking account of the circumstances of small states.
 Saudi Arabia, supported by Kuwait, Iran and Nigeria, said that the pilot phase of JI should be limited to Annex I Parties and the experience gained from the pilot phase could be used for the next phase.
Japan highlighted the benefits of various adaptation actions, while the UK emphasized the need to bring the users and producers of climate information together at the regional and national levels.
The G-77/CHINA, with BANGLADESH, the AFRICAN GROUP and SAINT LUCIA, described NAPs as key in supporting adaptation.
Chile, for Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean , expressed flexibility, suggesting option 1 with elements of option 3.
Brazil said self-differentiation e2 80 9cwould not take us to an agreement, e2 80 9d and, supported by AILAC, suggested a e2 80 9cconcentric e2 80 9d approach to differentiation.
A number of countries, such as the US, NEW ZEALAND and SAUDI ARABIA said that the substance of the instrument should determine its form and possible features.
AOSIS noted linkages among market use, compliance system, net benefits, and, with TUVALU and BRAZIL, eligibility rules to ensure environmental integrity.
 GHANA, on behalf of the African Group, expressed disappointment that guidelines for non-Annex I communications were not adopted and that no contact group was established to resolve differences between Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Supported by Brazil, India opposed sectoral approaches, saying they could lead to benchmarking and, thus adversely affect developing countries’ economic growth.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, expressed concern that some agenda items have matured while others have stalled.
Australia, Japan and the US called for a single transparency system applicable to all.
During the SBI closing plenary, the Philippines, for the G-77/China, requested, and parties agreed, to refer only to additional guidance to the GEF in the title of the decision text.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, urged compensation for victims of climate change and immediate funding and implementation of completed National Adaptation Plans of Action .
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, called for a focused group to address finance.
AUSTRALIA, the EU, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND emphasized the importance of framing Kyoto Protocol commitments in the context of a global legally-binding agreement.
The US and Saudi Arabia proposed, and WGII agreed, to delete reference to the time-frame from a sentence indicating that 93by mid-century 94 coasts will be exposed to increasing risks due to climate change and sea-level rise.
Tuvalu noted that e2 80 9cincluding provisions on accounting e2 80 9d and e2 80 9cspecific needs of countries with special circumstances in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS e2 80 9d can be applied to all themes.
The Umbrella Group, EIG, AOSIS, the EU and Costa Rica stressed the need for a strong political signal that ADP work is on track.
SAUDI ARABIA recalled long-standing opposition within the G-77/China to voluntary commitments and, supported by EGYPT, said it was not acceptable to try to shift the focus of ongoing post-2012 discussions.
Others, including South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, raised concerns about using these documents as a basis for discussion.
Mali, supported by Nigeria, WG II Vice Chair Taha Zatari, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and others, objected to the absence of West Asia and some parts of Africa in the paragraph, noting an abundance of available data on drought.
The US, supported by the UK, asked whether it was possible to have a single submission for inventory and communication reporting.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, with CHILE, stressed that sub-paragraph 1 of the BAP refers to “various approaches” to enhance mitigation and not only to market approaches, and that the public sector in developed countries should be the main source of financing.
 Countries with economies in transition, including Croatia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Romania, Latvia, Estonia, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, cited the need to integrate new technologies into their inefficient industrial sectors and stated that they would lower emissions as much as possible given their weak economies.
SAUDI ARABIA, BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA opposed any change to the consensus rule.
MAURITANIA, with ICELAND, cautioned against concentrating solely on forests and conservation.
While the compromise text was agreeable to most Parties, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and a number of other oil-exporting developing countries objected to text outlining such a follow-up process.
 : On draft conclusions , the Gambia, for LDCs, sought to add reference to LDCs in one section.
FRANCE presented discussions at an open-ended informal dialogue held from 5-6 May 2015, in Paris, France.
He explained that five proposals were submitted under Convention Article 17 before COP 15 by Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, the US and Tuvalu, and a sixth proposal was made by Grenada for AOSIS in 2010.
Grenada, for AOSIS, lamented deletion of references to LDCs, SIDS and Africa.
Guatemala, for the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean , congratulated parties for the spirit shown during the week, noting that this is “the first time we can call the text our own.”
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, said the group had stated its position on form and content.
CHINA, supported by the US, called for language rejecting credits for AIJ emissions reductions during the pilot phase.
Venezuela, for ALBA, stressed that, in accordance with the Convention, countries should be able to receive financial resources even if they have not signed or ratified the Paris Agreement.
CANADA and NORWAY emphasized that the verification and certification guidelines should provide for individual project circumstances.
Bolivia suggested increasing annual developed country contributions to 6% of GNP, while Saudi Arabia supported 6% of GNP plus an additional 2% for carbon capture and storage  activities in developing countries.
Switzerland, supported by Trinidad and Tobago, requested that the authors reconsider trying to agree on one number for a carbon budget.
Algeria, for the Arab Group, stressed that developing countries able to provide capacity can do so voluntarily.
Introducing draft Appendix E on environmental and socioeconomic impacts of CDM projects, the EU, NORWAY and SWITZERLAND said this was developed following informal consultations, and aimed to help countries in preparing CDM projects.
China suggested an ad hoc working group, and Tuvalu suggested a world summit on climate change.
Switzerland, for the EIG, noted different circumstances need different instruments and sources.
BRAZIL and MICRONESIA opposed CCS under the CDM, while QATAR highlighted the potential for CCS.
URUGUAY, with ARGENTINA and BRAZIL, urged avoiding negative impacts on the agricultural sector and food production.
SOUTH AFRICA and TANZANIA said the adaptation levy on the CDM should also apply to the other mechanisms.
Norway, the EU and the G-77/China noted that consideration of ocean storage is premature.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, suggested including follow-up to the TAR as a standing item on the SBSTA agenda.
On recipients of capacity building, the G77/CHINA said these are developing countries only, while the EU, KAZAKHSTAN and others said it included countries with economies in transition.
AUSTRALIA, supported by GERMANY, called for examining the need for formal procedures.
Yemen, for the G-77/China, said a balanced outcome for Cancun would contain an amendment of Annex B and definition of Annex I parties’ further commitments.
EGYPT, with PARAGUAY, emphasized that adequate and predictable finance should come mainly from public sources.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by many, called for enhanced experience and knowledge sharing, as well as technology development and transfer.
The EU and PERU, opposed by MALAYSIA, said the issue should be considered as part of IPCC 92s Third Assessment Report.
The PHILIPPINES noted misconceptions on AIJ and CHINA, MALAYSIA and INDIA noted the “blurring” of AIJ and JI.
On incentivizing adaptation and creating enabling environments, Bangladesh underlined the need to involve and incentivize the private sector and the US highlighted that recipient countries, not just donors, must play a role in providing incentives for adaptation.
The US asked the G-77/CHINA if the intention was only to confine discussion of the second review to that agenda item at COP-4; and about the timing of the next and subsequent reviews.
UZBEKISTAN, for the CACAM group, proposed the definition "developing countries and other countries not included in Annex I."
The EU emphasized the role of P&amp;Ms in compliance action plans and, opposed by Australia and Chile, advocated an open-ended list of facilitation consequences.
On the  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, stated it should set out the “bigger picture,” including concepts such as historical responsibility, justice, equity and burden sharing, as well as the effective implementation of developed countries’ commitments.
On  , the Philippines, for the G-77/China, suggested building on existing mechanisms or guidelines, such as national communications, rather than establishing new ones.
On financial resources, the US, EU, JAPAN and CANADA supported the draft text, while the G-77/CHINA proposed removing a reference to the GEF.
Capacity building: The G-77/CHINA, the AFRICA GROUP and others said capacity building is necessary to ensure meaningful participation from developing countries.
BRAZIL and the EU preferred that SBSTA "consider" a second workshop after COP-4 to focus on issues arising from, inter alia, Article 3.4.
The US opposed the inclusion of the development costs of the Protocol in the Secretariat 92s core budget, and with Australia, called for separate UNFCCC and Protocol budgets.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the US, EU and SAUDI ARABIA, expressed preference for the original title of the draft decision: " 91Good practices 92 in P&amp;Ms among Parties included in Annex I to the Convention."
China, the Philippines, the Arab Group and others supported using the text as a basis for further work, while the Umbrella Group, the Environmental Integrity Group , the EU, Canada and others opposed this.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, for AOSIS, stressed the need for Annex I Parties to take domestic action through P&amp;Ms, while ZIMBABWE highlighted their impact on developing countries.
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh underscored the report’s importance for developing countries given their higher socioeconomic vulnerability during disasters.
Japan and Switzerland supported streamlining roles and objectives of coexisting financial mechanisms.
CANADA and the US questioned reference to the "prompt implementation" of the framework.
 In its decision , the COP, inter alia, accepts with appreciation the offer by Fiji to host COP 23 and CMP 13 from 6-17 November 2017, in Bonn, Germany, and requests the Executive Secretary to make the necessary arrangements for convening the sessions at the seat of the Secretariat.
On the Adaptation Fund, ARGENTINA, also for BRAZIL and URUGUAY, proposed text welcoming the substantive progress achieved in “exchanging views and information” instead of “the negotiations.”
INDIA and ARGENTINA noted that text on response measures did not adequately reflect parties’ submissions.
Colombia, for AILAC, proposed linking the global stocktake with the IPCC’s assessment cycle.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, called for: transforming current pledges on the table into QELROs to enable progress in discussions; enhancing ambition by closing loopholes; provisional application of any agreement on a second commitment period to resolve the issue of the gap; and discussion of consequential amendments.
CHINA recalled the performance of Annex I Parties in meeting existing commitments and warned the EU: “beware of your bubble.”
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS stressed concerns regarding evaluation of progress made, and said they would provide a textual proposal.
Argentina, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia expressed concern with the concept of a registry, and Algeria said the idea of matching actions with support connotes uncertainty or delay.
The G-77/China, the LDCs, AOSIS, China and Saint Lucia, opposed by Australia and Canada, urged anchoring the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage in the 2015 agreement.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed satisfaction with the reconstitution of the CGE while lamenting that the time lost in the absence of the CGE cannot be regained.
The US, Norway, Canada and the EU supported broadening the scope of national adaptation planning processes.
Germany, France, Saint Lucia, the UK, Norway and the US indicated this proposal would require careful consideration, highlighting that the development of SRs rests with the WGs.
SAMOA and the AFRICAN GROUP called for a comprehensive adaptation approach.
 In its conclusions , the SBI, inter alia, welcomes the successful conduct of regional NAP Expos in Malawi, Panama, and Gabon in 2018, and recommends a draft decision to the COP.
The EU, G-77/ CHINA and NEW ZEALAND introduced minor changes.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, SWITZERLAND and UKRAINE called for a comprehensive review.
On Friday, the Group discussed the revised chapter outline, with Belgium raising concern about use of the word “global” in the revised title due to the regional aspects of the carbon cycle, and, supported by Luxembourg, suggested referring to the importance of regional aspects in the recommendations for authors, which was agreed.
Belize, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY , emphasized using existing institutions, rather than e2 80 9creinventing the wheel.
With the support of JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US, and opposed by the G-77/CHINA and the EU, he proposed replacing the decision and its associated initiatives with alternative text stating that consideration of demonstrable progress cannot take place until the SBSTA has considered the issue pursuant to the guidelines that may be elaborated under Article 7.
SAMOA, supported by the EU, BELIZE, and JAMAICA, questioned the utility of vulnerability indices, while EGYPT supported them.
The EU highlighted 25-40% emission reductions by Annex I countries through a combination of domestic and international measures, while BRAZIL stressed that reductions using the mechanisms be additional to these Annex I reductions.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the importance of MRV.
 CHINA, the PHILIPPINES, IRAN, JAPAN, THAILAND, CHILE, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, GAMBIA, KUWAIT and MOROCCO said it would be premature to make conclusions on areas of convergence because the process is still evolving and contributions have been preliminary.
 , the EU said the numbers presented for the amount of land needed for energy projects and forests come from model projections and, supported by Brazil, noted that the numbers assume a steep increase in agricultural productivity, the feasibility of which might not have been considered.
Responding to concerns from Germany and France, the CLA noted that biochar was originally given its own subcategory and that Tier 1 methods are only appropriate for mineral soils, not for organic soils.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for an effective global climate change framework and highlighted a package of elements that would enable progress and ensure environmental integrity, including: international consultation and analysis ; international consultation and review ; and MRV.
Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, underscored the importance of the global stocktake to determine “whether the Paris Agreement is sufficient for dealing with runaway climate change.”
Sudan, for the African Group, stated that INDCs and elements of the 2015 agreement are aspects of the same mandate, expressing concern over the presentation of two separate documents.
AUSTRALIA, opposed by AOSIS, proposed referencing the existing approach under the 1996 London Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter.
Responding to CHINA on the remaining effort to achieve Finland e2 80 99s renewable energy target of 38% by 2020, he explained that, in 2012, the share of renewables was 35%.
ARGENTINA noted successful measures undertaken by the UK and Germany to reduce emissions and highlighted continuing emissions increases in the US.
Australia noted potential for linkages with REDD and, with Norway, underlined the need to include carbon capture and storage .
NEW ZEALAND emphasized his proposal for a Virtual World Research Center to coordinate R&amp;D, building on New Zealand’s Lifestock Emissions and Abatement Research Network.
Venezuela called on parties to listen to Bolivia and to return promptly to the AWG sessions to consider the texts.
SINGAPORE and the BAHAMAS said diverse national circumstances should be taken into account.
The EU and NEW ZEALAND said Protocol development activities should remain in the core budget.
New Zealand, Japan, the Russian Federation and Croatia argued that individual countries should establish their own target based on their assessments of national mitigation potential in a bottom-up approach whereby aggregate numbers would be derived by compiling individual pledges.
Supported by the Philippines, Uganda recalled the 1997 Brazilian proposal on burden-sharing, asked the Secretariat to trace the proposal and invited delegates to consider how elements of the Brazilian proposal could fit into the 2015 agreement.
The LDCs and AOSIS proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
BRAZIL and CHINA stressed that the review must not lead to new commitments.
Lesotho, for LDCs, drew attention to people’s human rights, which have been compromised by climate change.
On future action, AOSIS and Japan said all countries will need to be involved in mitigation.
He provided a partial list of organizations that could provide inputs on the following: analysis on the AOSIS protocol and the German and UK proposals; market and sectoral approaches; fiscal mechanisms and activities implemented jointly; future forecasts and historic emission trends, energy, successful technological options, and methane.
On  , the Republic of Korea, for the EIG, said ICA should aim to facilitate mitigation action by developing countries, build capacity and enhance transparency.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, emphasized that the cycle must be linked to reviewing ambition and implementation of all six elements under the Durban mandate, and called for differentiation in the cycle for developing countries.
JAPAN, CANADA, POLAND and HUNGARY said the issue was linked to the outcome on the composition of the committee, and the issue was referred to ministers.
On a paragraph on preparation of a negotiating text by May 2015, the EU, supported by Switzerland and the Marshall Islands, and opposed by the LMDCs and Canada, supported maintaining a reference to Convention Article 17 .
CHINA, with BRAZIL and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed a e2 80 9cmitigation-centric e2 80 9d approach.
On Agenda Item 8 , several delegations including the EU, AUSTRALIA, US, CANADA, MYANMAR and MAURITIUS endorsed the IPCC.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the importance of issues including implementing the headquarters agreement and budgetary austerity, and looked forward to discussing national communications and inventories under the AWG-LCA.
The proposal by POLAND, BULGARIA, ESTONIA, LATVIA and SLOVENIA, stated that QELROs should be legally binding.
Japan and Norway expressed preference for a period of eight years, while noting that this view was not fixed.
 The EU proposal includes a general commitment for Parties listed in “Annex X,” which would consist of OECD members and countries with economies in transition.
KENYA and UGANDA called for a clear definition of climate finance.
SWITZERLAND, BRAZIL and IRAN supported financial penalties as a last resort.
NORWAY and BRAZIL called for moving away from project-based approaches to finance.
Spain, for the EU, welcomed the review of the NWP to build a common view on the continuation and strengthening of the programme.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, said the implementation efforts of the developing countries will depend on the actions of developed countries.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, highlighted concerns relating to predictability and adequacy of funding.
Brazil, on behalf of the G-77/ China, stressed the key role of emissions reductions in Annex I countries.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, with the LMDCs, AILAC and JAPAN, suggested that the co-facilitators combine the proposals into a document.
France, on behalf of the EU, supported by Canada and others, endorsed the SBSTA"s two technical advisory panels.
New Zealand, Canada, the EU and US supported the revised conclusions, stating that they provided "a balanced compromise."
On MRV, Nauru, for AOSIS, supported reference to national communications and biennial update reports for communicating commitments, stressing the need to build on existing reporting modalities.
Uganda, for the LDCs, highlighted that developed countries’ responsibility under international law to redress damage caused by climate change formed the basis for public funding from those countries.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said sectoral approaches were best applied at the national level, and, regarding the aviation sector, said additional constraints or incremental costs should not be imposed on developing countries.
The EU, with Canada, stressed that the Protocol calls for Annex I countries to “strive” to minimize impacts, that the objective was to figure out how best to “strive” through the collection and processing of information, and that such information collection would require efforts by both developed and developing countries.
Brazil opposed linking Article 6 to REDD+, while Panama and Belize supported such a link.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, further expressed concern with references to “those in a position to do so.”
Saudi Arabia, opposed by the Netherlands and Vice-Chair c3 9crge-Vorsatz, requested inclusion of “material substitution” in a revised bullet point on maximizing material and resource efficiency, closing loops and material substitution.
New Zealand stressed the importance of providing regionally relevant information and datasets, and Saudi Arabia called for addressing regional issues in the Working Group reports.
The US and the UK were concerned that there is currently no formal review of the atlas and delegates decided that this would be taken up in the plenary session.
 Palau, for AOSIS, cited lack of funding for adaptation as a major failure of the Convention and proposed a new fund based on the “polluter pays principle” to link emissions to Annex I countries’ funding commitments.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, welcomed the progress on CCS and agriculture.
Swaziland, for the African Group, said the Doha meeting must result in agreement on: a comparability and compliance framework for developed countries  ’ mitigation efforts; and clear mid-term targets for finance.
Saudi Arabia, Libya, Kuwait and United Arab Emirates said a separate workshop should be held specifically on Article 2.3.
PROTOCOL SIGNATURES: On 16 March, the Kyoto Protocol officially opened for signature at UN headquarters and was signed by Argentina, Switzerland, the Maldives, Samoa, and Antigua and Barbuda.
  This meeting will convene from 10-12 March 2008, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.
China, Saudi Arabia and Algeria supported additional work on the historical responsibility for climate change and on equity issues.
On the contribution of international organizations to the process, the G-77/China and Saudi Arabia urged specific reference to OPEC.
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Jamaica, and the Bahamas concurred, adding that chapter scientists should be considered for funding on equal footing with PhD and Post-Doctoral students.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, informed delegates that they are working on a submission on NAPs.
CANADA suggested that the mechanism develop as other aspects of the Agreement evolve, and, with the EU, called for examining how the compliance regime will relate to other mechanisms under the Agreement.
Brazil and Tuvalu, for the LDCs, noted that the scope should not be limited to Convention Article 2 .
Federated States of Micronesia, Tuvalu, Venezuela and others underlined that the Convention’s guidance is needed for IMO and ICAO.
Korea, for the EIG, supported by GEORGIA, stated that market and non-market approaches should be guided by principles of transparency, environmental integrity and avoiding double counting while considering the diversity of NDCs.
Guatemala, for AILAC, called for awareness that “this is our text and it will be our ability to listen to one another and our ability to articulate our needs” that will enable an effective agreement.
IPCC Chair Pachauri appealed to delegates to accept wording on “a moderately increased contribution.” Spain and Italy proposed “could make a moderately increased contribution.” The US expressed disappointment at the weakening of the bullet point regarding nuclear energy and asked how delegates could accept modeling results for renewable energy and not for nuclear energy.
Supported by POLAND, HUNGARY underscored the need to enhance understanding of the three new gases under the Kyoto Protocol.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, lamented that non-Annex I countries are being “pushed” to increase the frequency of their national communications, while Annex I countries are refusing to do likewise.
The EU said a workshop co-organized by the CCD and CBD on identifying and promoting synergies through forest and forest ecosystems will be held in March 2004, in Viterbo, Italy.
The US, supported by Canada and others, expressed concern with reopening of issues and proposed establishing spin-off groups to consider issues specifically mandated by COP 17.
  Chair John Ashe  opened the first part of AWG-KP 9, highlighting recent Protocol ratifications by Turkey, Kazakhstan and Zimbabwe.
The ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP noted that all parties to the Convention have to undertake actions and drew attention to South Korea’s proposal to establish a registry of nationally appropriate mitigation actions.
Colombia, Grenada, for AOSIS, and Australia supported the Chair’s proposal.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries , underscored, inter alia, the need for action on the adaptation framework for implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , technology and capacity building programmes, and finance that is reliable and additional to official development assistance .
On  , parties received information from Switzerland, Norway, Kazakhstan, the EU, AOSIS, Belarus, Australia, and Croatia regarding, inter alia: clarifications on QELROs submissions and associated conditions; views on market mechanisms; national policies implemented to support QELROs; and preferences for the length of the second commitment period.
Similar concerns were voiced by C d4TE D’IVOIRE and TUNISIA, who called for international solidarity and encouraged technology sharing, and GREECE, who noted the need for international cooperation in achieving targets based on equity principles that address social and economic impacts.
Germany, with Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain and Norway, noted the importance of addressing key vulnerabilities under Article 2 of the UNFCCC , and Japan suggested that Article 2 be considered in the SYR.
On the nature of a shared vision, Australia, supported by the Republic of Korea and others, said the shared vision should be a statement of aspiration rather than legally binding.
The EU, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, AOSIS, JAPAN, CHINA, SINGAPORE and several others highlighted concerns over environmental integrity in relation to multiplication factors, with the EU noting that they would inflate emission reductions that have not taken place.
SENEGAL, for LDCs, noted that without movement on the Kyoto track, other tracks cannot move significantly.
On Chapter 2 on Foundations for decisionmaking, Switzerland noted the need for consistency with other WGs, in particular with WG III, and Canada said this chapter draft should be made available early in the process so that its material can be consistently used in other chapters.
Micronesia, speaking for AOSIS, as well as for ARGENTINA, BENIN, CHILE, COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, the GAMBIA, GUATEMALA, ECUADOR, EL SALVADOR, KENYA, MOZAMBIQUE, PANAMA, PERU, SENEGAL, UGANDA and TOGO, stated that Annex I countries, whether or not parties to the Protocol, must collectively reduce their emissions by at least 45% from 1990 levels by 2020, and by more than 95% from 1990 levels by 2050.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for more attention to institutional arrangements.
COLOMBIA and SINGAPORE requested clarification on the status of the high-level segment, regarding whether it would be at summit level involving heads of state and government.
SAUDI ARABIA and the US identified the need for further work.
Ecuador, for the G-77/China, called for maintaining the delicate balance of the Paris Agreement and accelerating progress on the work programme, and looked forward to additional information on a possible additional session in 2018.
On  , the G-77/China and Tuvalu preferred no decision.
China, India and Singapore, opposed by the US, suggested that India’s proposal relating to prohibiting unilateral trade measures against exports from developing countries should also be included in the preambular part of the shared vision section.
Highlighting the bifurcated structure of the current MRV framework under the Convention as a starting point, CHINA, with Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, and the PHILIPPINES, stressed that differentiation should be embedded systematically in the structure of the framework, not as a varying aspect of each element.
On Monday, the G-77/CHINA, AUSTRALIA, US and EU expressed views on the Co-Chairs 92 draft COP decision, with the G-77/CHINA noting that additions would be necessary, and the US urging that the text not be expanded further.
While some Parties, such as Norway and Canada, suggested that some proposals could be implemented immediately, Saudi Arabia urged further discussion.
SWITZERLAND reported on the results of the Informal Ministerial Dialogue on Climate Finance, which took place from 2-3 September 2010 in Geneva, Switzerland.
NORWAY, supported by CANADA, said operational entities were a key element for CDM institutional structure.
BOLIVIA, supported by COLOMBIA and the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, proposed maintaining temporary credits for forests that are intact and monitored.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed his group’s concerns about “bifurcated structures” in the text on NDCs and the transparency framework, and opposed including loss and damage in the text on the transparency framework.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and JAPAN, opposed by SAMOA, preferred consecutive rather than parallel functions, with the facilitative stage preceding enforcement.
TUVALU and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP requested deletion of text that would allow Parties to "elect" the activities under Article 3.4 to be included in the first commitment period.
Switzerland, opposed by the UK, proposed referring to limitations and caveats only in a later section.
Swaziland, for the African Group, called for decisions on means of implementation, including finance, technology transfer and capacity building, and expressed concern about the 2013-2020 financing gap.
  Recommending a focus beyond trade issues, CANADA, opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, suggested that discus ef bf bdsions on cleaner or less-greenhouse gas-emitting energy should be included.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, expressed concern over the lack of funding for this meeting, which limited the participation of developing countries and could be detrimental to the process itself.
Mali, for the African Group, stressed the importance of finance for implementation of Convention commitments, and for achieving progress on the Paris Agreement.
COLOMBIA and CONGO BASIN COUNTRIES, opposed by BRAZIL, said discussions on methodologies cannot be separated from discussions on financial mechanisms.
  Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for addressing mitigation and adaptation elements in a balanced manner, underscoring the importance of adaptation for agriculture and the need to increase agricultural productivity for food security, particularly in developing countries.
Singapore, China, Cuba and Nicaragua urged the Presidency to help find consensus in Lima.
NORWAY and the EU opposed a provision on share of proceeds in Articles 6 and 17 .
 CANADA tabled a discussion paper on principles, modalities, rules and guidelines for an international emissions trading regime on behalf of Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Russia and the US.
SOUTH AFRICA and JAPAN highlighted the need for a scientific assessment of new gases.
The US, NORWAY, CANADA and the EU supported broadening the scope of national adaptation planning processes.
POLAND and HUNGARY said second reports are being prepared and changing guidelines will lead to delays.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for improving the TEMs e2 80 99 planning and follow-up.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underlined that sectoral approaches should not replace legally binding commitments for developed countries, and that transnational sectoral agreements are not acceptable for developing countries.
CANADA and JAPAN emphasized that JI is subject to the rigor of guidelines under Protocol Articles 5, 7 and 8.
THAILAND, VENEZUELA, TANZANIA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed discussion of reduction commitments for developing countries.
Commenting on the G-77/China proposal, Switzerland appealed for a focus on the mandate established in Cancun.
The EU and G-77/China underscored that future work on P&amp;Ms should contribute to an assessment of demonstrable progress of Annex I Parties in achieving their Protocol commitments.
 Canada, supported by South Africa, Austria and many others, urged taking a broad approach so that the programme of work serves as a catalyst for other actions outside of SBSTA.
The EU, New Zealand and others stressed the need to agree on LULUCF rules before finalizing commitments.
Delegates also had before them written comments submitted by Gambia, the EU and the US .
Noting that the Fund is now fully operational, he said the main task had been to operationalize direct access and highlighted that national implementing entities  in Senegal, Jamaica and Uruguay had now been accredited.
Argentina, for the G77/CHINA, said her group has made compromises and urged others to follow suit.
SINGAPORE, opposed by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested deleting e2 80 9cscaling-up, e2 80 9d and the EU suggested replacing it with e2 80 9cenhancing.
India, supported by Brazil, questioned the focus on LULUCF issues, stressing the need to reduce Annex I fossil fuel emissions.
The progress report on AIJ includes submissions by Australia, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands , Norway , and the US, for a total of 32 ongoing or planned projects.
CHINA and INDIA opposed phrases such as “willing to do so.”
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, called for addressing capacity building in a stand-alone manner and through recognition of the issue under other building blocks.
The EU, with JAPAN, CANADA and SWITZERLAND, stressed that a global, ambitious and comprehensive agreement is required to preserve the environmental integrity of the Convention.
New Zealand, supported by the US, preferred MRV as a heading for the section, observing that compliance is a cross-cutting issue.
Although differing on the specific conditions, countries in favor of including sinks within the CDM include the US, Canada, Australia, Japan and Norway.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the importance of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities  for outcomes under the PAWP.
Algeria, China, Kuwait, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Benin did not agree with listing the number of countries in favor of each alternative in Rule 42 .
Saudi Arabia, the EU, India, Iraq and China, opposed by the Russian Federation, preferred informal consultations.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, proposed text to replace a placeholder for paragraph 131 on a framework for scaling up technology development and transfer.
The EU, SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA and others highlighted the benefits of using standardized baselines under the CDM.
SLOVENIA supported the Philippines on the TAPs and agreed with the US on the NGO intervention.
On the scope, Germany and others supported the proposed separate topic on UNFCCC Article 2, with the UK and Norway suggesting to introduce it after Topic 2  and before discussing transformation pathways.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported a multi-window financial mechanism under the control of the COP to support the building blocks.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA and the EU requested information on Turkey\'s approach to responsibilities.
Mexico, for the EIG, called for: a strong role for the IPCC and the scientific community in the Facilitative Dialogue and the GST; and substantial progress on technical issues on Article 6, with the participation of observers.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, supported by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and NICARAGUA, opposed adoption of the agenda without the agenda item on national adaptation plans for LDCs, as provided for in Decision 1/CP.16.
The US and the EU proposed listing a menu of activities, noting that different countries have different concerns.
CHINA and INDIA requested that the sources of the proposals be noted in the compilation.
BURKINA FASO, for the AFRICA GROUP, underscored the high expectations of the international community that COP-7 will be a success.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported a mandate to the subsidiary body Presiding Officers to develop a draft text.
The Federated States of Micronesia called for keeping the 1990 base year, while Croatia and Canada said parties should have different base years, but that for the sake of comparability a common reference year could also be set.
India and Germany suggested adding language noting that the 1.5 c2 b0C carbon budget would be exhausted within 10-15 years at current emissions rates.
In the ensuing discussion, Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported increasing the inclusion of civil society in the negotiations and suggested exploring ways to enhance the involvement of civil society members from developing countries.
With the UK and France, he called for prioritizing the work of the DDC, not expanding the TGICA mandate, and using the WG TSUs to coordinate the DDC.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, identified basic principles, including equity and direct access to funding by recipients.
 On the question of action encouraged by the COP, parties agreed to an annex with indicative guidance, as proposed by the EU and modified by the US and others, and to 93demonstration activities 94 instead of a pilot phase, as preferred by Brazil.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for progress on accounting rules to ensure comparability of efforts.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by INDIA and AOSIS, said the use of offsets through the CDM is antithetical to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities because it allows developed countries to use the least-cost mitigation opportunities in developing countries to fulfill their own obligations while leaving the expensive mitigation to be undertaken by developing countries.
The EU, the Russian Federation and New Zealand also proposed technical text on LULUCF.
AUSTRALIA, supported by the US, NEW ZEALAND, JAPAN and others, proposed deletion of the reference to the implementation of all elements of  Decision 1/CP.17, preferring progress by the ADP e2 80 9cto advance its work.
The US, New Zealand, Norway, Canada, the EU, Australia, Switzerland, and the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, stressed that the group’s mandate is to continue clarifying mitigation pledges by developing country parties, which is vital to build confidence and trust and to identify practical solutions for moving forward.
BRAZIL, with CHINA, NORWAY and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, said including experts from the LULUCF group would improve the discussions.
On  , Sierra Leone, for the African Group, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for AOSIS, and others identified the need to focus on the most vulnerable countries, including Africa, the LDCs and SIDS.
In the bullet addressing recent developments including the Paris Agreement, Luxembourg, supported by Germany and opposed by Saudi Arabia, requested reinserting reference to the global stocktake, noting that such a reference had already been agreed upon in the WGI and WGII outlines.
Kishan Kumarsingh, Trinidad and Tobago, stressed: identifying data and information that is required in order to affect planning, identifying vulnerabilities, and assessing characteristics of the vulnerable group to inform additional socioeconomic information.
SIERRA LEONE, UGANDA and TIMOR-LESTE highlighted country-specific circumstances.
Regarding guidelines for national systems, the EU, with JAPAN, said they should be flexible in order to reflect different national circumstances.
Mali, speaking for the LDCs, hoped that developing countries, and especially LDCs, would benefit from meaningful assistance.
Switzerland suggested granting the Ramsar Convention permanent observer status, while Palau said Ramsar should have full membership of the Joint Liaison Group.
JAPAN, with AUSTRALIA, said that P&amp;Ms should be self-assessed.
NORWAY, TUVALU and SWITZERLAND called for reference to leakage and non-permanence of carbon sinks.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KENYA and Zambia, for the LDCs, stated that “arrangements between” two entities do not imply an equal relationship and expressed concern about the GCF drafting its own accountability relationship, suggesting that the Standing Committee should undertake this task.
JAPAN, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and AUSTRALIA called for coherence and consistency between the two AWGs.
France , Fiji, Australia, Kenya, Benin and the UK understood the concerns, however, worried about setting a precedent.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, questioned the inclusion on the agenda of the biannual budget for 2018-2019, given SBI 46 agreed to a draft decision.
Noting that insurance transfers risk but does not reduce it, AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, underscored risk reduction strategies.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: The Chair distributed a draft text compiling the EU and G-77/CHINA proposals on non-Annex I communications.
Under Item 4  on National Communications from Parties Included in Annex 1, the President reported that the United Republic of Tanzania and Qatar are to become signatories to the FCCC before the end of the Conference, and Israel will become a non-Annex 1 Party in August.
 The G-77/CHINA and AFRICAN GROUP urged agreement on terms of reference for development of performance indicators submitted by the EGTT.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that important issues have been left out of the agreement, but expressed certainty that parties will address these issues.
In paragraph 10 , the EU, supported by SLOVENIA and GHANA, proposed that the Committee meet "at least once a year."
CHINA, opposed by the US, CANADA, JAPAN, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and EU, suggested deleting text in the annex that calls on experts to disclose potential conflicts of interest, noting that this would create an additional burden on expert reviewers.
Brazil, for the G-77/China, said proposed actions in sectors should be voluntary and compatible with an open international economic system.
Chair Chruszczow confirmed that the purpose of the friends of the chair group would be to discuss whether and how to address the concerns of the Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine under agenda item on intergovernmental arrangements.
Switzerland, for the EIG, called for continued engagement on substance through informal informals and by allocating additional time to certain items.
The G-77/CHINA and BRAZIL urged consistency with UNFCCC language and preferred inserting "other countries, particularly developing countries."
 In 2008, the two AWGs held four parallel negotiating sessions in: April in Bangkok, Thailand; June in Bonn, Germany; August in Accra, Ghana; and December in Poznań, Poland.
Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Switzerland and Morocco suggested a fundraising campaign to align with the IPCC’s 30th Anniversary in 2018.
Brazil, Tanzania, South Africa, AOSIS, Switzerland and others supported the option stating that capacity building shall be enhanced with regard to the building blocks of the BAP and all aspects of the Convention, as well as emerging needs.
However, others, such as China and India, expressed reservations, particularly regarding any discussion on sectoral targets that do not focus solely on Annex I parties.
On the mention of a Protocol amendment, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION also stressed their desire for a comprehensive and global legal framework, not a mere Protocol extension.
On greenhouse gases, sectors and source categories, CANADA stressed that the implications of adding a new gas should be explored before such an addition, and NEW ZEALAND suggested that links to ozone depletion be considered.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for successful completion of the AWG-KP in order to make progress on a new protocol under the ADP.
On text noting high decadal variability in Arctic temperatures, Canada, supported by Norway, suggested removing a specific reference to a warm period observed from 1925 to 1945.
GHANA, with the US, suggested considering technical issues under the SBSTA and through future decisions.
India and Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, stressed public sources should be the main source.
Centro Mexicano de Derecho Ambiental, on behalf of the Climate Action Network, stressed that the fate of Kyoto Protocol is in the EU’s hands and called on Japan, Canada and Russia not to destroy the Kyoto Protocol.
NEW ZEALAND, with the US, said the agreement would recognize differentiation but emphasized the need for a common, collective effort.
Panama, for COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS , stressed the need to improve the effectiveness of REDD+ finance and engaging the private sector.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the emphasis at the recent Seminar of Governmental Experts on mobilizing private sector resources and support for an enabling environment.
Lesotho, for the least developed countries , called for decisions on research and systematic observation for LDCs to focus on strengthening institutions through revived consideration of a LDC work programme.
On the submission of questions of implementation, BRAZIL, with SAUDI ARABIA and EGYPT, bracketed text permitting the compliance committee to receive questions indicated in Protocol Article 8 ERT reports.
South Africa, on behalf of the AFRICAN GROUP, announced its proposal for a consolidated adaptation work programme.
AUSTRALIA and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION argued for a non-binding regime and said their countries were more concerned about their own compliance than that of others.
AUSTRALIA, supported by RUSSIA, called for cost-effective mechanisms and said that credits should be transferable across the three mechanisms for the achievement of the Protocol\'s aims.
JAPAN, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and ZAMBIA, highlighted the need for cooperation with the AWG-LCA, saying that “it does not make sense” to discuss the collective emission reduction range for Annex I Protocol parties under the AWG-KP, and the range for all Annex I parties under the AWG-LCA.
SRI LANKA and PALAU, speaking also for Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, proposed an ecosystem approach to adaptation.
On Parties 92 submissions, the EU and AUSTRALIA, opposed by NEW ZEALAND and TUVALU, suggested inviting submissions on issues relating to LULUCF, other than on factoring out.
BELGIUM announced it will contribute e2 82 ac51.6 million to the GCF and called for the GCF to fund transformative activities in LDCs and vulnerable countries.
Grenada, for AOSIS, invited parties to consider how the group could access ocean thermal energy technology from Japan, the US and France.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, noted that it was crucial that intersessional work delivers formal negotiating text by the start of COP 24.
Canada highlighted, inter alia: decoupling growth of Gross Domestic Product  and emissions; plans to take a sector-by-sector regulatory approach, aligned with the US where appropriate; and important investments in carbon capture and storage .
 In the morning contact group, chaired by Leon Charles , SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by Switzerland, for the EIG, preferred removing reference to the ADP using the information from the 2013-2015 Review.
Noting that parties may not achieve all they hoped for, Switzerland, for the EIG, called for: a solution to the carry-over of surplus AAUs that ensures the environmental integrity of the second commitment period; building on lessons learned from fast-start finance; and developing a path for finance for 2020.
The US, the UK and others stressed this should not set a precedent for the future.
CHINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, proposed a new preambular paragraph noting e2 80 9cthe agreed outcome pursuant to the BAP and the Doha Amendment.
CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA supported simplifying accreditation of Designated Operational Entities  and CHINA and others called for more transparency.
The EU stated that a COP decision could strengthen institutions, while IRAN preferred doing so in the agreement.
The G-77/China opposed smaller groups at this point, with the LDCs suggesting that the main issues should first be addressed in a large group, while smaller groups could focus on removing brackets at a later stage.
The elements of the package deal struck between the EU and the Umbrella Group focused on four issues: Party-to-Party trigger, appeal, reinstatement of eligibility and compliance action plan.
China, Bolivia, Venezuela and Nicaragua expressed support for adopting the agenda as proposed.
On the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 texts, Bolivia, for the Group of 77 and China , emphasized that the non-paper on elements for a draft negotiating text is e2 80 9cnot perfect, e2 80 9d but could be e2 80 9ca useful starting point.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, commended the new negotiating text, highlighting that it brings together issues that were close to conclusion at COP 15.
Several Parties, including DENMARK, VENEZUELA, POLAND, AUSTRALIA, FRANCE, the EU and the US, called for the establishment of a coherent, effective and strong compliance system.
The US, supported by Saudi Arabia, criticized the structure of the SPM separating impacts and adaptation, and lamented Section C 92s focus on key selected impacts.
The AFRICAN GROUP, G-77/CHINA, AOSIS and LDCs urged a second commitment period.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, said parties in Doha must decide to establish a separate expert body for the Review to feed into the ADP and establish a platform for developing common accounting rules.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said the ADP text is party-driven and party-owned.
The US, with CANADA, proposed moving the cluster on plans and strategies after the cluster on definition and scope of NAMAs, with CANADA clarifying that plans and strategies provide framing for NAMAs.
Nicaragua and Bolivia called for Mother Earth to be reinserted in the text.
The EIG, with Colombia, underscored that a Durban package requires agreement on the legal form of the AWG-LCA’s outcome.
BRAZIL, supported by the EU and US, suggested Article 4.10  be housed in the SBI and Article 12  in the SBI or SBSTA.
Switzerland, Australia, Tuvalu, New Zealand and others supported addressing sectoral approaches in the AWGLCA.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and BURKINA FASO urged the structure of the HLS to allow for wide participation.
Noting that the sixth assessment cycle already has a heavy workload and raising concerns about the high cost and feasibility of Option B, New Zealand, Denmark, Japan, the UK, the US, Luxembourg, Sweden, Canada, China, India, Netherlands, Ghana, France, Belgium, Argentina, Turkey, Indonesia, and the Republic of Korea expressed a preference for Option A.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called on developed countries to scale up support for the implementation of adaptation measures and plans through the Cancun Adaptation Framework, the NWP, and the development of a mechanism for loss and damage.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, underlined the need to ensure environmental integrity and go beyond offsetting to increasing mitigation ambition.
DENMARK and AUSTRIA asked for more detail on the differences between energy consumption associated with CCS in coal and gas power plants.
She said the proposed language on adaptation refers to all developing countries while the Convention refers only to those that are “particularly vulnerable.” CANADA and ITALY also raised questions on the Convention language used in the proposal.
Japan stated that text on a shared vision should be part of the agreement and Australia called for a message that is both inspirational and operational.
Parties disagreed on text about the implications of national and sub-national approaches, particularly on text referring to “intra-national displacement of emissions.” Colombia supported equivalent treatment of national and sub-national approaches, while Papua New Guinea insisted on addressing intra-national displacement from sub-national approaches but not national ones.
On the role of the COP/MOP, South Africa, supported by Samoa, identified an overlap in the functions assigned to the COP/MOP, the EB and the compliance body.
  South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested a focus on scope, further analysis and possible solutions.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, suggested that: the term “NDCs” refers to mitigation; the term “contributions” does not apply to adaptation; and a parallel timing process for MOI is needed.
BRAZIL, with CHINA and SAMOA, urged reference to a formal letter of agreement.
Mali, for the African Group, said COP 22 should prioritize: ensuring a comprehensive and rules-based process; crystalizing adaptation action; and elaborating the technology framework.
The Workshop was organized and hosted by AOSIS and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
  Tuvalu, for AOSIS, suggested discussing a mechanism to use a share of revenues from auctioning Assigned Amount Units to fund adaptation, and methodologies to apply a levy on aviation and maritime transport, while recognizing the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
 Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, called for: discussions on national adaptation plans  to consider means of implementation ; sustainability and predictability of funds for the Adaptation Fund; and defining non-state actors’ role.
France, on behalf of the EU, said that the synthesis report should be more flexible in naming Parties, periodicity could await subsidiary bodies" advice, and annual inventories should be extended to all GHGs.
AOSIS and the EU said there is no need to have TEMs at all UNFCCC meetings, with AOSIS noting that quality, not quantity, is key.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed that the work of AWG-LCA has important intergenerational implications in the context of sustainable development.
The Russian Federation, supported by Ukraine, proposed a new option, which states that the share of proceeds would be paid into the Adaptation Fund “on a voluntary basis.” New Zealand said the drafting of the option of taking no decision on the issue is misleading and proposed amending the option to state that no decision would be taken on the issue within this contact group, noting that this issue was being discussed elsewhere and a decision could be taken there.
COLOMBIA, SAINT LUCIA, TUVALU, BOLIVIA, ARGENTINA and SAUDI ARABIA opposed discussion of technical rules in spin-off groups before setting the political context.
ICELAND pledged a 30% reduction in a joint effort with the EU, and emphasized its participation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
MALI, on behalf of the LDCs, highlighted the need for terms of reference for the expert group, and said his group is currently formulating proposals for a draft decision on this matter.
The Dominican Republic and Bolivia called for inclusion of women and youth as experts.
PERU, also speaking for Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama and Uruguay, urged agreement on a second commitment period as soon as possible to avoid critical increases in global temperatures.
Ghana, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the role of private sector financing of mitigation technologies and public financing of adaptation technologies.
The Gambia, for LDCs, supported by AOSIS, said those aiming to leave the Kyoto Protocol are not doing so because they want to do more, but because they want to do less.
New Zealand, with Australia, noted changing national circumstances.
The UK, supported by Norway, cautioned that the US language might be perceived as indicating disagreement between various IPCC bodies, and suggested that the Panel be “kept informed about working arrangements between the IPCC Secretariat and TSUs, and among TSUs.” Brazil supported the UK’s proposal, with the inclusion of a request for periodic reporting to the Panel.
Australia, with the G-77/China, stressed the need for demonstration projects in both developed and developing countries.
Maldives, for AOSIS, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND proposed discussions based on previous work by the SBSTA and the Standing Committee on Finance .
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, encouraged parties to suggest ideas for compromise and called for avoiding line-by-line discussions on sections without agreement.
He noted that proposals by Germany, France and the UK on legally binding reduction objectives are already contained in the other proposals and can be deleted.
The EU, supported by the US and CANADA, endorsed text on pilot and/or demonstration projects, which supported the concept of learning by doing.
The following summary provides a synthesis of compliance negotiations, focusing on the most controversial issues delegates had to face: the COP decision and the elements of the package deal struck between the EU and the Umbrella Group.
Saint Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago expressed their support for the proposed text.
Saudi Arabia, supported by the Bahamas, remarked that developing country participation at meetings was hampered by travel and visa arrangements, and, with India, proposed a balance between developed and developing country participants at important meetings, such as approval and scoping sessions.
AUSTRALIA said a new treaty is the best way to achieve a collective outcome and the US outlined its proposal for a legally-binding agreement under the Convention.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, recalled that developing countries had fought for Decision 13 in Berlin, but noted that the whole process was moving too slowly.
During discussions, SWITZERLAND, TUVALU, Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA and CHINA supported a resumed session of the AWG-KP in September or October.
On the CRF, the US and SWITZERLAND urged retaining links with the Revised 1996 IPCC Reporting Guidelines, and, with the EU, said the categories in the sectoral tables should be consistent with the GPG.
BOLIVIA suggested establishing a “climate resilience and sustainable development mechanism.” KIRIBATI suggested recognizing the need for a special mechanism to fast-track action to assist the most vulnerable countries.
The US and the ARAB GROUP opposed inviting technical papers at this stage.
The EU, CANADA, JAPAN, URUGUAY, COSTA RICA and NEW ZEALAND preferred using the Orvieto document as it stands and stressed the tight work schedule leading to COP-9.
Norway, Germany, Sweden, Chile, South Africa, Brazil and Canada supported option 2, Argentina supported option 1, noting the focus should be on methodology, and Ecuador supported option 3 but could support option 2 if funds were limited.
On sinks in the CDM, the US, CANADA, JAPAN, COSTA RICA, AUSTRALIA, COLOMBIA, HONDURAS and BOLIVIA, opposed by the EU, CHINA and GHANA, argued in favor of including sinks.
Mexico, for the Environmental Integrity Group, and New Zealand said the focus should be on a long-term global goal.
Tanzania, supported by Mali, Japan, the US, the Netherlands, Brazil and the UK, called for either a technical paper or a special report, as a priority for developing countries.
Many countries welcomed the initial GCF resource mobilization, with some, including the EU, GERMANY, SPAIN and FINLAND, describing their contributions to various climate-related funds.
Switzerland, Germany, and several others requested additional information on specific budgetary items, while the UK, Germany, and others noted that governments need guidance on required contributions.
The UK, with Germany and the US, called for recognition of historical contributions, including in-kind contributions to the Technical Support Units .
Micronesia, for AOSIS, highlighted the latest science and urged stabilization at below 350 ppm, peaking emissions by 2015 and emission reductions of more than 95% by 2050.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA stated that “key ideas” had been omitted in the consolidation and, with AUSTRALIA, highlighted that if the outcome was a treaty text, it would require different specificity than a COP decision.
TAJIKISTAN, with KYRGYZSTAN, called for text taking into account the special concerns of mountainous developing countries.
BOLIVIA and VENEZUELA supported the proposal made on Monday evening by China, for the LMDCs, which, inter alia, calls for reorganizing the decision text in the Tool in a “logical” order: transparency of mitigation action; transparency of adaptation action; generally ensuring MRV of support; reporting of support; verification of support; and information on support provided and received.
On Principles, AUSTRALIA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, the US, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND preferred that these not be expressly provided for in the text.
It was later announced that the instruments of ratification had been received from Kiribati and Lesotho  and Oman , bringing the total to 121 States and the EEC.
Noting the different objectives of CDM and JI, Japan and Poland argued against additional requirements on JI.
JAPAN, supported by NEW ZEALAND, suggested having clear outputs from each phase, such as a report from the technical dialogue.
The US, with Australia, proposed not limiting discussions to the draft decision forwarded from Lima.
CHINA, for the LMDCs, with BRAZIL, said there is no agreement on what the features are and what guidance can be provided, with BRAZIL noting features should be viewed as reference for future rounds of NDCs, which would help parties and the Secretariat organize and aggregate information for the global stocktake.
The G-77/CHINA, PAKISTAN, the AFRICAN GROUP, SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA and INDIA expressed reservations with the Mexican proposal.
Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, Bangladesh, for the LDCs, and others noted the need to strengthen and intensify the means of implementation for adaptation.
The EU, with NORWAY, reiterated that this information is necessary and useful to discuss the collective level of ambition by developed countries.
At the final plenary, Jamaica, for the G-77/China, noted that the group had gone along with the agreement under great duress, and that it was  93embarrassed 94 to be part of a decision that sends the wrong signal to the global community about Parties 92 commitment to the climate change process.
JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and the US noted that, although there are portions of the text that could be acceptable as a basis for discussions, the text contains some elements that will take parties back to previous discussions and disagreements.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and the EU promoted early action while the US supported a longer time-horizon.
On   , Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, submitted several insertions on institutional arrangements and the global goal/long-term vision.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL, underlined the importance of principles and Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, noted previous substantive decisions by parties on capacity building relevant to this sub-section.
Kenya, supported by Canada, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, and others expressed concern about both amendments, noting lack of clarity regarding the need for 20 members and a potential conflict of interest with Bureau members both nominating and confirming TG-Data members.
The G-77/China, opposed by New Zealand, supported a role for the COP/MOP.
Following further consultations between Japan, Germany and the authors, the Panel approved listing all the technologies from Table SPM.2 in parentheses in the first sentence, and the text was agreed.
During discussions, the EU said a robust accounting system is needed in addition to review and said the US approach to review might suggest a system of post hoc rules, with parties individually deciding, inter alia, on the basket of greenhouse gases, LULUCF accounting and use of offsets.
CHINA said any discussion on the Protocol should consider the impacts of implementation, and SAUDI ARABIA called for a scientific assessment of these impacts.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, said that Annex I parties should increase the level of ambition of their emission reduction commitments and, with Grenada, for AOSIS, said loopholes, such as carry over of surplus AAUs and weak LULUCF accounting rules, should be avoided.
The G-77/China preferred focusing on the period after COP-7, while Canada and others noted that capacity building was a long-term process.
On Article 4 , NORWAY reported consultations had made progress by clarification and concession from the EU and the proposal would be amended.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, welcomed progress on NAPs and on gender, inviting parties to implement gender-related activities.
Australia and New Zealand: 
SAUDI ARABIA and QATAR questioned the process through which the text originated.
New Zealand and Venezuela suggested providing ministers with focused questions.
Algeria, for the African Group, urged other Annex I parties to step up their pledges.
The G-77/CHINA, the Marshall Islands, for AOSIS, NORWAY, the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others supported establishment of a focused spinoff group on this issue.
Bangladesh, Cuba and China encouraged support for research capacity building in developing countries on climate change.
INDIA and CHINA stressed that the AWG simply needs to decide on new quantitative commitments and the length of the second commitment period.
Canada, supported by Australia, called for indicators taking into account specific national circumstances, and expressed preference for the concept of "good practices."
NGOs and some delegations suggested that the AOSIS target could provide the substance to fill in the blanks of the EU proposal, but the US and others\' suggestions seemed to point in other directions.
JAPAN and the EU identified difficulties in assessing unintended consequences and called for information from those affected.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, requested a placeholder for the definition of “climate finance.” BOLIVIA proposed defining a mechanism for the implementation of joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral sustainable management of forests as an alternative to REDD+.
Switzerland, supported by Australia, Norway, the EU and others, proposed to begin with an exchange of ideas in a plenary setting and then engage in contact or spin-off groups.
India also welcomed the reference to social media and changes to technology, while the Netherlands suggested enhanced use of infographics.
Argentina, Fiji, Colombia, Mauritius, Chile, Malaysia and Bolivia supported the AOSIS protocol, while expressing concern that Annex I Parties were not able to meet current commitments.
 HUNGARY, Katalin Szili, Parliamentary State Secretary, Ministry for the Environment and Regional Development, described national plans to mitigate GHG, and agreed with the EU position on adoption of legally binding policies and measures.
The EU, G-77/CHINA, SAMOA and SWITZERLAND supported the use of "shall."
On work in 2017, many countries suggested workshops, with BRAZIL proposing workshops for parties only and the US a “non-intrusive” facilitated sharing of views.
MALAYSIA, for the G-77/China, said developed countries have taken insufficient steps in developing enabling environments, and expressed concern at the EGTT 92s limited financial resources.
UGANDA, for the LDCs, highlighted difficulties in implementing national adaptation programmes of action  due to inadequate resources.
Spain, for the EU, supported the Chair\'s proposal for moving forward and said the Chair’s text can facilitate negotiations, but noted room for improvement regarding more ambitious emission reductions.
CANADA, with SWITZERLAND, stressed the prioritization of guidance to the Fund.
Slovenia, for the EU, said parties should agree on conclusions at this session.
JAPAN, CANADA and the EU preferred in-sessional workshops.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, stressed coherence of action on adaptation under the Convention.
Nauru, for AOSIS, urged developed countries to make ambitious emission reduction targets at the scale required by science, and called on all parties to put the interests of vulnerable countries at the same level as their own interests.
The EU stressed that action by Annex I parties would not be sufficient to tackle climate change, and Australia proposed that a future framework should include all major emitters.
On loss and damage, AOSIS, the LDCs, AILAC, the African Group and others, opposed by Australia, emphasized that it should become a stand-alone element in the new agreement.
The EU, supported by HUNGARY, and opposed by JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, the US, CANADA and SAUDI ARABIA, underlined its preference for a positive list.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, inquired whether there would be an opportunity for the group to consider guidance from the informal high-level ministerial consultations.
Algeria, for the African Group, expressed serious concerns with the lack of progress at previous meetings and reminded parties that Africans are already impacted by climate change through increased droughts, health hazards, food scarcity and migration.
ECUADOR, supported by VENEZUELA, BOLIVIA, and BANGLADESH sought to refine the text on CDM operating after the first commitment period to be contingent on parties taking commitments under a second commitment period.
South Africa, opposed by Australia, suggested developing reporting guidelines for initiatives and actors outside the Convention.
SAUDI ARABIA, OMAN, KUWAIT, UAE, VENEZUELA, IRAN, NIGERIA and AUSTRALIA said it was premature to make recommendations given the lack of certainty in the SAR data.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by CHINA, emphasized the differences between facilitation of implementation and promotion of compliance.
 Luxembourg, for the EU, urged delegates to build on the positive experience of the Seminar of Governmental Experts, and supported setting in motion deliberations on the post-2012 period.
Madeleine Diouf, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Senegal, briefed participants on NAPAs, focusing on the immediate needs and concerns of LDCs, including technical requirements, and resource mobilization.
The G-77/CHINA and others asked about the origin of the EU ef bf bds figures.
The PHILIPPINES, with the EU, suggested continuing consideration of this issue at the next session.
India, with AOSIS, suggested widening the scope to include an assessment of adequacy in accordance with the latest available scientific literature.
The Gambia, for LDCs, requested: a decision on the long-term global goal for emission reductions; assessment on the adequacy of the long-term global goal under the Review process; adoption of common accounting rules; assistance for developing countries to make pledges, including development of a handbook for preparing and implementing NAMAs; a decision on long-term finance with reference to the GCF; MRV of support; and mid-term finance to 2020.
The EU highlighted the need to consider positive impacts of response measures and, with AUSTRALIA, called for focusing on existing channels and processes.
On additionality, TUVALU and others stressed the importance of accounting for additionality, with BRAZIL recalling that projects imply emissions in Annex I Parties.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, supported the continuation of consultations but said that the AGBM 2 already had a heavy schedule.
IRAN, TURKEY and KUWAIT supported the proposal.
The EU, the US, SWITZERLAND and AUSTRALIA acknowledged developing countries’ need for support, and BRAZIL pointed to broad agreement on this issue.
 During the first week of INC-11, Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, introduced a draft protocol submitted in September 1994, and Germany also introduced a proposal for further elements of a protocol.
JAPAN sought to include text specifying that mortality only occurs near injection points, while CHILE, supported by MALAYSIA and CHINA, said ocean effects could not be inferred from the results of studies in confined environments.
Tuvalu proposed addressing commitments for adaptation, while the EU noted that funding for adaptation should be considered under the Protocol Article 9 review.
AUSTRALIA, the US and JAPAN opposed including provisions on intellectual property rights  in the 2015 agreement.
The PHILIPPINES, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, highlighted the importance of discussing ambition with respect to the means of implementation.
AOSIS, with COLOMBIA, said Protocol Article 6  and 12  should be given equal treatment in the context of share of proceeds for adaptation, as this would ensure real additional funds for adaptation, sufficient funds for administrative costs, and no additional transaction costs for the CDM.
Switzerland, supported by the Russian Federation, proposed the development of an overarching internet communications technology strategy.
Recognizing the vulnerability of small island States, NEW ZEALAND called for support to AOSIS.
China, for the G-77/CHINA, Jamaica, for AOSIS, Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, and Senegal, for the LDCs, called for the agreement to establish a new capacity-building mechanism.
JAPAN highlighted the difference between cases under Article 6.4  and other cases, and added that in the case of retroactive penalties, the concern voiced by SOUTH AFRICA about the effect on innocent Parties would be relevant.
Sweden, supported by the Russian Federation and Belgium, and opposed by Oman and Nigeria, called for a dialogue on developing country commitments.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern over the SBI’s closing plenary, which was held during the early hours of Sunday and highlighted that such procedural arrangements exceeded the capacity of small delegations.
 MALAYSIA: Dato’ Abu Bakar Daud, Deputy Minister of Science, Technology and Environment, called it “regrettable” that the AGBM is still exchanging views and is unable to narrow down policies and measures.
Brazil suggested engaging in partnerships for specific events, and Ecuador noted the possibility of cooperation among UN agencies to participate in the organization of meetings.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and ETHIOPIA, stated that it is not practical to proceed with mandatory baselines.
The US and Switzerland noted similar discussions taking place in the CGE group, and the EU suggested that the groups might be combined at some point.
BRAZIL noted convergence on agriculture issues and URUGUAY welcomed the text on agriculture.
Egypt, for the Arab Group, called for: affirming the Convention principles; effectively implementing the BAP; and considering how to carry forward any incomplete work from the AWG-LCA.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, proposed a contact group on REDD.
The insistence on G-77/China involvement was linked to the level of ambition acceptable by the US and, in response, the G-77/China distanced themselves from attempts to draw developing countries into agreeing to anything that could be interpreted as new commitments.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, with AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN and the US, suggested SBSTA express support for the World Conference on Climate Change, to be held in Moscow from 29 September to 3 October 2003.
Panama and Colombia proposed that the framework adopt a flexible approach.
France, on behalf of the EU, noted that the COP has not yet received the UN Secretary-General\'s draft decision and that once it was received it would have to be incorporated.
Maldives, for AOSIS, said the Dialogue’s political outcome should reaffirm the 1.5 c2 b0C goal, and, supported by INDIA, urged it to recognize the emissions and finance gaps.
Mexico, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, JAPAN, the EU and the US supported the global goal of halving emissions by 2050, and the EU suggested that developed countries must decrease their emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by MARSHALL ISLANDS and SAUDI ARABIA, said that disasters were dependent on the impact of weather events on human beings, and could therefore be prevented.
Switzerland, for the EIG, expressed concern that only one element of the transparency framework has been discussed because of time constraints and urged a balanced allocation of time.
The US, with support from Switzerland, suggested that this issue be revisited at IPCC-25, to allow time for members to consider the policy and to provide the Secretariat with any suggested amendments.
On recommendations for the SBSTA, Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, called for addressing: stress-resistant breeds; irrigation and water harvesting; and ecosystem-based adaptation.
In response to a question from Sierra Leone and Trinidad and Tobago on work at the national level, she elaborated on the ILO’s Decent Work Country Programmes.
Kenya, for the AFRICAN GROUP, emphasized developed countries’ obligation to provide MOI, and that social and economic development and poverty eradication are first and overriding priorities for developing countries.
On vulnerability and ability to respond to the impact of potential consequences, the EU, ARGENTINA and the GAMBIA questioned the inclusion of textual proposals, which they said had only been proposed by one party and not agreed upon in the drafting group.
The EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and others supported a technical workshop before Durban, while BRAZIL, supported by SURINAME and others, suggested a technical expert group, given the technical expertise required for certain issues to be addressed.
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Nigeria opposed language on limiting CCS under the CDM to geological formations.
ZIMBABWE said income from Annex I Parties 92 carbon taxes could be used to support technology transfer, while SOUTH AFRICA added that the revenue could fund relevant research.
The US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand supported the invitation for views but said the SBI should not prejudge the outcome of the COP 92s deliberations.
Brazil urged using the allocated time effectively, and with Indonesia, stressed that the issue of “numbers” is the benchmark for success in Barcelona.
The US, supported by Switzerland, urged caution regarding the perception of IPCC products being sponsored by particular organizations.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, suggested restructuring the text in accordance with the Bali Action Plan , highlighting the need for a separate chapter on finance.
ZIMBABWE, TANZANIA and SOUTH AFRICA said methodological and institutional issues relating to the flexibility mechanisms, such as the CDM, should be the focus of deliberation.
The Republic of Korea, Japan, Bulgaria, Ethiopia, Kenya, the EU and Brazil urged remaining countries to ratify.
Grenada, speaking for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , urged an ambitious outcome that addresses the true scale of the problem, responds with the urgency needed; and guarantees the long-term survival of small island developing States , LDCs, and other vulnerable groups.
Regarding options for increasing the budget, Tunisia pointed to revenues from the sale of IPCC products, and Belgium suggested that the IPCC should receive a portion of the revenues.
Swaziland, for the African Group, urged the AWG-LCA to give full consideration to adaptation, finance, response measures, and technology transfer and shared vision.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said that review mechanisms of the SBI and the SBSTA should be used in the AG13 process.
Tanzania, for the G-77/CHINA, called for separate discussions on capacity building for developing countries and countries with economies in transition.
The UK noted a range of possible topics for a Special Report, in particular the function of capital markets in energy investment, and, with France and Switzerland, preferred postponing deliberation of this until the next IPCC session to allow for further consideration.
The G-77/China, Saudi Arabia and Oman objected to drafting a COP decision, while the EU, Norway, New Zealand, the Russian Federation and Canada expressed support for it.
SAUDI ARABIA said that the proposal made by G-77 and China should be included, particularly at this stage of the AGBM process.
On paragraphs 83 on cooperating in the implementation of the agreement, c2 a0 and 84 on a common transparency framework, the EU, opposed by BOLIVIA, speaking on their own behalf, proposed moving both under commitments/contributions/actions.
Supported by Argentina, South Africa and Brazil, for the G-77/China, Tuvalu noted that parties have different views on progress, expressing concern at the slow progress in the AWG-KP compared to the AWG-LCA.
AOSIS, with CHINA and ZIMBABWE, stated that deliberation of this item is premature given that it is unclear what the actions taken under the Berlin Mandate process will accomplish.
CHINA highlighted common but differentiated responsibilities, while NEW ZEALAND and Pettersen called for a global approach to maritime and aviation emissions.
Uruguay, supported by Argentina, Mexico and others, highlighted the agriculture sector’s mitigation potential.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, objected to the absence of language on adaptation, with the PHILIPPINES adding that the word was “profusely used” in previous discussions.
Co-Chair Fadhel Lari introduced the Co-Chairs 92 draft conclusions as well as proposals from the EU and G-77/China.
Pakistan, for the G-77/China, questioned the role of the AGF, with many developing countries stressing the need for new, adequate and predictable funding from developed countries’ public sources.
Norway, supported by the Netherlands, called for a clear decision on the engagement of communications specialists at IPCC-41.
  AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND and others welcomed the opportunity to discuss the proposal.
In contrast, the US, Canada and Australia said UNFCCC Article 2 should be embedded within the structure, and not be included as a separate topic.
The G-77/China, Switzerland and others highlighted the equal importance of the building blocks.
The EU, the US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND opposed.
INDIA, with CHINA, said individual efforts would operationalize differentiation of collective efforts.
Mali, for the African Group, called for ensuring coherence and balance in the Paris Agreement work programme.
On administrative costs of Article 6 activities, the EU opposed SAMOA 92s proposal that procedural costs be considered prior to the establishment of the JI Supervisory Committee.
The Panel approved the recommendation of the Science Board, which was set up by the Bureau, to invite the following people to serve on the Board of Trustees: Ernesto Zedillo, former President of Mexico; Valli Moosa, former Minister of Environment, South Africa; Brice Lalonde, former Minister of Environment, France; and Khempheng Pholsena, Minister to the Prime Minister’s Office, Head of Water Resources and Environment Authority, Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Spain, for the EU, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement, stressed the importance of the review process to improve national communications and urged that, pending resolution of the issue, national communications should continue to be developed periodically, appropriately and on time.
However, Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, the EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, the US, JAPAN and others highlighted the need to prioritize work on issues in Appendix 2 of Decision 1/CP.16.
Cyprus, for the European Union , underscored the need to discuss how the Convention principles will be applied in a post­-2020 framework so all parties take on commitments, and that any work going forward must adhere to the two workstreams.
 The PHILIPPINES noted that the G-77/China draft proposal would avoid inconsistency with the Convention.
 CHINA, supported by the PHILIPPINES,
Pakistan, for the Group of 77 and China , stressed the unique vulnerability of least developed countries , the African region, and small island developing states .
Austria, Germany, France and others supported adding reference to the Stern Review, which estimates GDP losses 93at or above 10%.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, emphasized the need for flexibility to achieve a balanced and environmentally-effective outcome.
SWITZERLAND and the EU cautioned that the COP should not be obliged to take a decision on every MCP item.
AWG-KP Chair Ashe described the appointment of ministers from the UK and Brazil to conduct ministerial consultations on “key political questions.” BRAZIL then provided an overview of these consultations with negotiating groups and countries.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, highlighted that 45 countries have submitted their NAPAs and urged for support to implement these NAPAs.
On  , the G-77/China, with the African Group and AOSIS, emphasized long-term financing that is new and additional to ODA.
The US and Norway expressed interest in the proposal, with caveats.
  Andrew Ure  and Balisi Justice Gopolang  will co-chair a contact group on the process to enable LDCs to formulate and implement NAPs, and modalities and guidelines for LDCs and other developing countries.
The EU, supported by the US and Canada, endorsed text on pilot and/or demonstration projects that support the concept of learning by doing.
CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and ARGENTINA, introduced text stating, inter alia, that “Annex I parties shall not resort to unilateral measures against imports from developing countries.” SAUDI ARABIA stressed that this issue lies at the core of the discussions on potential consequences and that Annex I parties must not be allowed to use environmental protection as pretext to impose tariffs or trade barriers.
Malaysia, for the LMDCs, requested that civil society be admitted into spin-off groups and, with Maldives, for AOSIS, underlined the need to consider the number of parallel groups meeting.
Submissions were received from the G-77/China and the EU, and a joint submission was received from Japan and the US, which highlighted selection process for the host of the CTCN, financing of the CTCN, and clarity on the interaction between the TEC and the CTCN.
COSTA RICA said the G-77/China was working to produce a joint position.
The US and CANADA stressed the needs of least developed countries.
BRAZIL, supported by CHINA, said preparing new texts and focusing subsequent discussions on how to take them forward created the impression that text negotiated by parties would not form the basis of further work.
Noting that this is the pilot region for elaborating and applying the APF, he described Cuba 92s involvement in an APF pilot project on Capacity Building for Stage II Adaptation to Climate Change in Central America, Mexico and Cuba .
The COP convened presidency consultations on Article 6, co-facilitated by James Shaw, Minister for Climate Change, New Zealand, and Carolina Schmidt, Minister of the Environment, Chile.
BRAZIL said ministerials should be held sparingly, when concrete policies can be proposed to them, and, with AOSIS and the EU, agreed to work on improving TEMs e2 80 99 output.
Many advocated broadening the scope, with MALDIVES and NEW ZEALAND proposing focus on tourism and agricultural sectors.
Colombia, for AILAC, called for guidance that recognizes the nationally-determined nature of NDCs as the “operationalization of differentiation itself.” Switzerland, for the EIG, suggested that information could be specific to the NDC type.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, stressed that this session should focus on progressing arrangements under cooperative approaches and further discussing response measures.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reiterated their commitment to a second commitment period and stressed that the flexibility mechanisms are an integral part of the Kyoto Protocol.
 SAUDI ARABIA, NORWAY, the EU, JAPAN and others supported including CCS under the CDM.
INDIA and CHINA said the IPCC should be requested to consider how new gases would affect the 25-40% emission reduction range.
TUVALU, supported by AOSIS, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and SWITZERLAND, suggested deleting reference to a "work programme" and replacing it with "elements for future SBSTA work."
Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf of AOSIS, said the recommendations to COP-1 should include initiating negotiations on a protocol.
The Russian Federation, with South Africa and Thailand, stated that issues of competitiveness must be addressed.
TUVALU, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, COLOMBIA and others, suggested adding a new paragraph, after clarifying that the ADP has finished its mandate, which decides to establish the APO.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, SWITZERLAND, AUSTRALIA, and the PHILIPPINES supported the Polish amendment.
Niger called on greater collaboration between the IPCC and regional organizations, and Spain highlighted the Iberoamerican Network of Climate Change Offices.
The G-77/CHINA and AOSIS questioned the value of an element on national decision-making processes for adaptation planning.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the prospects for outcomes from the review of the Protocol under Article 9, adaptation and technology transfer, the AWG and the Russian proposal on voluntary commitments.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that SBSTA should work immediately on national communications and contributions to the Berlin Mandate process.
Saudi Arabia and China preferred procedural conclusions, such as taking note of the report and thanking those experts involved.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted the Group’s joint submission on transparency, MRV and international consultation and analysis .
On public access to information, panelists presented on: a regional instrument for implementing access rights in Latin America; the European Commission’s Climate-ADAPT and the UNFCCC’s Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action  information repositories; and carbon footprint product labeling in the Republic of Korea.
Japan underscored that the scoping process should be free from bias and avoid conflict of interest, with Belgium underlining the need to be balanced and treat all stakeholders equally.
Sudan, for the African Group, emphasized the need for: developed countries to e2 80 9cassure e2 80 9d leadership and ratify the Doha Amendment; a single decision under ADP workstream 1 ; and focused discussions on how to close the finance gap in the long term.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, encouraged broad participation in the multilateral assessment, noted the submission of biennial update reports and looked forward to further submissions.
TUVALU stressed appropriate technologies, and RWANDA said donors must address the need for poverty reduction when transferring technologies.
Australia, New Zealand and the EU, opposed by the Gambia, Ethiopia, for the LDCs, Thailand and other developing countries, called for coordination between the AWGs on levels of ambition and comparability of efforts.
Sweden, the US, Kazakhstan and Germany supported it, and suggested identifying key issues and areas.
SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the bureaus of the two subsidiary bodies must work in close coordination to avoid delays.
VENEZUELA, with BRAZIL and BOLIVIA, underscored that the CDM cannot function outside of the context of QELROs, and therefore without a second commitment period.
Proposal from Papua New Guinea and Mexico:
The US, supported by JAPAN, called for excluding reference to loss and damage, saying this was not an aspect referred to in Decision 1/CP.17.
JAPAN supported using other criteria and the NETHERLANDS supported further consideration of ex officio representation for SBI and SBSTA.
THAILAND, Malawi, for LDCs, and ARGENTINA, opposed by AUSTRALIA, supported establishing a spin-off group on finance.
  SBI Chair Yauvoli informed that the multilateral assessment of Belarus and Kazakhstan would complete the third and final multilateral assessment working group session of the first round of the IAR process.
Lesotho, for the Least Developed Countries , called for massively scaled-up, accessible and additional funding for LDCs, and, on adaptation, he said the LDCs should receive 70% of the proposed 1.5% of Annex I parties’ gross domestic product for adaptation.
 MALAYSIA and THAILAND opposed inclusion of additional activities under Protocol Article 3.4 in the first commitment period.
Spain, for the EU, and the US highlighted the role of market mechanisms in mobilizing the US$100 billion of annual funding agreed in Copenhagen.
JAPAN highlighted that the IPCC’s 25-40% reduction range does not consider economic consequences and political feasibility and, with CHINA, noted the IPCC range was not a negotiated conclusion.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for joint implementation of disaster risk management and climate change adaptation, and stressed the need to strengthen national-level institutions.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, supported by CHINA, called for clarification on the means of implementation of FCCC Article 4.5, and on the responsibility and conditions for implementation.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, noted the usefulness of some spin-off groups, in particular on differentiation.
Ethiopia, for the Least Developed Countries , called for informal and reflection notes, suggesting that some decisions could be taken at COP 23.
Delegates listened to presentations from Australia, Kazakhstan and Monaco on their proposed QELROs for the second commitment period, including the figures and the basis for them.
The Netherlands, Austria, Germany, and Australia asked that an explanation to this effect be incorporated into the text, and China and Cuba cautioned against negative language to describe the approach used in the TAR.
China, India, Saudi Arabia and others stressed the voluntary nature of developing country mitigation, stating that commitments would be against the Convention’s principles.
The US said much has changed since the Convention was agreed, and CHINA said lack of implementation by Annex I parties has not changed.
Switzerland, for the EIG, highlighted the role of national GHG inventories in a periodic review process.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU and JAPAN supported establishing small groups to address specific issues, while the G-77/CHINA opposed having smaller groups at this point.
On the review of COP decisions, the G-77/China supported reviewing all COP decisions, while the EU, the US, Japan, and others said that the framework for implementation was the starting point, since it already considered previous decisions.
Reflecting on progress over 20 years under the UNFCCC, Nauru, for AOSIS, noted that hurricane Sandy was a reminder that “we are all in this together.” She emphasized that Doha is about preserving the fundamental integrity of the climate change regime which should begin with an ambitious and credible second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The US, BOLIVIA, JAPAN, CHILE, MEXICO and COLOMBIA highlighted global goal and peaking of emissions as the focus of the group.
SINGAPORE noted that the list of types of actions for the registry is insufficient, and SAUDI ARABIA pointed out that his country’s proposal on a supporting and accrediting mechanism is not reflected adequately.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, highlighted, inter alia, the outcome on the LEG, and regretted lack of agreement on capacity building.
Mali, for the African Group, supported by many others, commended outgoing Deputy Executive Secretary Richard Kinley and Dan Bondi Ogolla, UNFCCC Secretariat, for their dedication and outstanding work.
Mali, Bolivia, Ukraine, IPCC Vice-Chair Sokona, TFI Co-Chair Calvo and others highlighted problems with obtaining visas in a timely manner to attend meetings.
WGI Co-Chair Stocker, supported by Sweden and Norway, noted that the SPMs have never been scoped since they are integral parts of the full ARs, and proposed scoping of SYRs, as well any cross-cutting issues.
SAINT LUCIA, with TUVALU, said the political context is very important and that such technical discussion was premature.
The EU, with the US, preferred taking one decision on both.
On the draft decision text, Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested brackets around “Agreement” to avoid prejudging the Paris outcome.
Cuba, WMO, Sweden, China, the UK, Denmark and Timor Leste outlined tools and methodologies that were useful for implementing DRR and climate change policies.
Suggesting that "everyone is waiting for someone else to make the first move" in negotiations, he highlighted that the US produces a quarter of the world 92s emissions, and that the per capita US levels of emissions are three times higher than those of France.
The US, Saudi Arabia and New Zealand called for reflecting on the wisdom of this mode of communication and proposed Chair Pachauri speak again informally to the UNFCCC Executive Secretary on this matter.
NEW ZEALAND, CANADA, the RUSSIAN FEDERATION and NORWAY said INDCs should address mitigation only.
Sudan, for the African Group, supported by China and Chile, and opposed by the US, preferred restating the extent to which developing countries’ implementation depends on the level of support.
MALAYSIA and MEXICO sought consistency in policies between different environmental fora.
SWITZERLAND, on behalf of the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, said the CDM should be based on an incremental approach, that JI should follow a two-track approach, and that liability under emissions trading should be linked to the nature and scope of the enforcement branch of the compliance regime.
Supported by Costa Rica and China, he proposed forming a group of experts from non-Annex I Parties under the AGBM to formulate guidelines for the format of non-Annex I national communications.
TOGO and CHINA stressed financial and technology needs.
The US, with the Republic of Korea, Japan and New Zealand, suggested a shortened formulation making reference only to the 2015 agreement.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by the US, said proposals based on current and planned activities should also be discussed.
 France, Belgium, Germany and Spain mentioned unofficial translations of the SPM into French, Dutch, German and Spanish.
On  , China, for the G-77/CHINA, Colombia, for AILAC, CANADA, SWITZERLAND, the LMDCs, Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP and INDONESIA proposed self-referral triggers.
 DENMARK: Svend Auken, Minister for the Environment and Energy, contrasted the need for reductions and the forecast for energy needs for the coming years and noted that even the OECD countries will experience substantial growth.
Malawi and the LDCs opposed co-financing.
SAUDI ARABIA and VENEZUELA both raised concerns about the text.
With COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA and IRAN, he noted they are supplemental to domestic action.
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the US proposed alternative text listing activities relating to implementation of decision 5/CP.7 to reflect that progress had been made.
He agreed with Saudi Arabia that the decision in this case appeared appropriate, but supported Ireland on the desirability of a comprehensive review of all Rules of Procedure.
The G-77/China stated that Annex I parties are failing to meet their obligations under the Protocol, while the EU, Japan and others stressed their commitment and efforts to achieving their targets.
INDIA, with AOSIS and the AFRICAN GROUP, called for additional resources.
Regarding a new sentence proposed by authors on  , the US, with Australia and Chile, supported a formulation stating that e2 80 9cmitigation of certain short-lived climate forcers can reduce the rate of warming in the short term, but will have a limited effect on long-term warming, e2 80 9d instead of an alternative formulation proposed by the authors stating that e2 80 9clong-term warming is driven mainly by CO2 emissions e2 80 9d and that e2 80 9creducing emissions of SO2 would cause warming.
Supported by MEXICO, BHUTAN and ICELAND, COLOMBIA called attention to sinks under the Protocol and underscored the elaboration of methodologies.
The Gambia, with Algeria, Sudan and Zambia, supported continuation of the Kyoto Protocol.
TUVALU, supported by JAPAN and KENYA, expressed concern over entering into negotiations on the table e2 80 99s content, with co-facilitator Perrez assuring the table has no legal status.
LDCs, with SAUDI ARABIA, noted the limited success to date in implementing technology development and transfer.
AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the EU, JAPAN and NEW ZEALAND, opposed by the G-77/CHINA, stressed the importance of considering cross-cutting elements and the integration of adaptation and mitigation.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait urged caution in accepting new commitments, given scientific uncertainty and the inability of Annex I Parties to meet existing commitments.
Many countries supported a goal of keeping temperature increase below 2˚C above pre-industrial levels, with AOSIS underlining 1.5˚C and Bolivia 1˚C.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by the MARSHALL ISLANDS, suggested a role for SBSTA and the possible need for an expert meeting before COP-4.
The EU, supported by JAPAN, strongly supported the role of NGOs and remained open to tailoring different mechanisms for different NGO constituencies.
ARGENTINA stressed that the Kyoto Protocol should remain the foundation for future Annex I commitments, and be strengthened, and VENEZUELA indicated there is no need to renegotiate the existing legal framework.
COSTA RICA underscored the importance of early action and, with BRAZIL, highlighted demonstration activities, as well as regional networks and south-south partnerships.
MEXICO, BARBADOS and others underscored the unequal distribution of losses and risks.
NEW ZEALAND, supported by AUSTRALIA and NORWAY, proposed a template as a flexible tool to capture information on pledges, including on sectors, metrics, gases and timeframes covered.
Algeria, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed serious concerns with the lack of progress in this process and reminded parties that Africans are already impacted by climate change, through increased droughts, health hazards, food scarcity and migration.
Following a request by SAUDI ARABIA and the G-77/CHINA that the cross-cutting issue of funding be addressed in a separate group, President Pronk said the group on "Box A" would be allocated more time to address this issue.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and KENYA emphasized differentiation of information, especially for the most vulnerable.
Highlighting “logical inconsistencies” between requesting the CDM EB and the JISC to “consider” the establishment of a joint accreditation mechanism and the mandate to “jointly develop and apply” the mechanism in the second paragraph, Brazil, initially opposed by the EU, asked the paragraph be deleted and brackets be removed from the first paragraph.
SAUDI ARABIA and NIGERIA requested retaining paragraphs relating to loss of income.
On demonstrable progress, Saudi Arabia, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraph recognizing the first national communication submitted under Article 7.2, stressing that the approach was too narrow.
During discussions, Egypt, the Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Solomon Islands, the Philippines and China raised a range of issues, inter alia: the contribution of international aviation to the EU’s emissions reduction target; comparability of efforts; supplementarity; a compliance mechanism; and why the EU cannot unilaterally move to a 30% reduction target.
  Argentina, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the need for developed countries to put forward ambitious quantified emission reduction commitments under the AWG-KP and lamented that current pledges are insufficient.
Co-Chair Chow, supported by the EU and G-77/ CHINA, urged reference to "required."
Norway, supported by Nauru, suggested addressing barriers to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The Chair alluded to the fact that the text of the Article on voluntary commitments had originally been submitted by AOSIS countries, and therefore, by members of the G-77/China.
INDIA and CHINA called for remaining focused on streamlining text.
The G-77/CHINA, BANGLADESH, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA and CHINA underscored the role of governments and the public sector in enhancing mitigation.
CHINA said the G-77/China paper reflects the serious effort made to facilitate a decision.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION, supported by JAPAN and CROATIA, said that the aggregate range must be determined through a bottom-up approach.
Bangladesh noted its intention to begin contributing in the future, while Mali, recalling its past contributions, emphasized the importance of in-kind contributions for awareness building.
SWEDEN and DENMARK supported coordinated measures in taxation, and FRANCE called for a tax on CO2 emissions and a simple differentiation mechanism.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, underlined that transparency should apply to all aspects, especially MOI; and the need for differentiation in addressing mitigation, stressing the necessity to link actions and support.
The EU said SBI is legally obliged to consider items on its agenda and the UMBRELLA GROUP expressed disappointment that the matter would not be discussed at SBI 28.
The EU, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND supported addressing the issue, with the EU stressing the need to decide what happens to CDM projects in EU members that are non-Annex I parties.
In response to questions from the US, the G-77/CHINA clarified that the mechanism should empower new and existing institutions in developing countries to take enhanced action on capacity building.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, stated that the TAPs should be open-ended.
Brazil, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by the Federated States of Micronesia, for AOSIS, and TUVALU, called for mandatory inclusion of agreed activities to eliminate the “pick and choose nature” of current accounting and promoted a net-net accounting approach.
On a request to continue discussions on, inter alia, increasing capacity-building and support for the involvement of observer organizations, MEXICO and SOUTH AFRICA suggested this should be considered particularly for developing countries observer organizations.
China opposed a US proposal that CRF tables contain key source categories, proposing that uncertainties cover all categories.
FINLAND stressed the EU 92s efforts to achieve tangible results and show demonstrable progress by 2005.
The G-77/China, with Australia and New Zealand, highlighted non-tariff trade barriers.
COSTA RICA, on behalf of the G-77/China, also requested more time for review and noted the number of proposed amendments.
Ecuador, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized, inter alia: the urgent need for pre-2020 action; adaptation as a priority for developing countries; and enhanced participation of indigenous peoples in the UNFCCC process.
Tuvalu, for the LDCs, and Kenya emphasized differentiation of information, especially for the most vulnerable.
The EU, US and Australia favored text requiring that second national communications be submitted within three years of the availability of financial resources.
AUSTRALIA, supported by CANADA, invited parties to meet informally to further discuss areas of divergence.
BOTSWANA stated that submissions should be compiled into two separate documents: one covering issues related to Protocol Article 3.9 and one on other issues, which are “only for information.” The EU called for a single text on issues covered by the AWG-KP’s work programme, and MICRONESIA agreed that two texts would be a step backwards.
The US, JAPAN, NEW ZEALAND and the EU supported 1 January 2007 as this deadline, while SAMOA preferred the year 2005 so as to allow a pre-first commitment period review and determination of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms.
Bolivia, supported by Saudi Arabia, preferred noting that this statement should be considered in the context of sustainable development.
Tanzania, supported by Togo and South Africa, called for more time to try to reach a compromise.
In the final SBI Plenary on Friday, 1 November, the G-77/ China, opposed by the EU, Norway, Japan and Canada, attempted to re-open the timeframe for providing guidance on the Special Climate Change Fund, deleting laudatory language on the third GEF replenishment and a request for an expert group.
Querying where financing would come from for the second option, whereby the TSU could be comprised of both developing and developed country institutions, the US, with Canada and others, preferred the first option, with the TSU hosted and managed by the country of the developed country WG/TF Co-Chair.
Switzerland, for the EIG, recognized positive interaction between delegates and expressed hope that the cooperative spirit will continue.
Swaziland, supported by The Gambia, noted the draft text “provides a landing ground and marks the beginning of defining capacity building.” The EU understood the need to strengthen capacity-building institutions under the Convention as “our common vision” and hoped for the establishment of a capacity-building committee as an outcome of COP 21.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, underscored the need for coherence of financing under the Convention and “enhanced support to enable enhanced actions.” CANADA suggested focusing on areas of complementarity and on increased effectiveness of the Financial Mechanism.
CHINA, supported by HUNGARY, called for a review of FCCC implementation, not just commitments.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, said shifting the focus from cooperative collaboration towards e2 80 9can implementation review e2 80 9d would be unhelpful and duplicate existing processes under the Convention.
The LDCs and Colombia, for AILAC, said adaptation communications should clarify needs and priorities.
Bolivia, with Malaysia, Indonesia and Colombia, stressed that the text needs to be consistent with national legislation.
Many hoped the Protocol could enter into force by the WSSD in August 2002, with the EU and Japan announcing their Protocol ratifications prior to the Summit.
Bolivia highlighted equity and the right to development, Ecuador urged addressing the impacts of climate change from a human rights perspective, and Tanzania emphasized that support to countries suffering the impacts of climate change is an equity issue.
Australia and Japan suggested discussing common mitigation elements applicable to both developed and developing countries.
Supported by the EU, NEW ZEALAND and others, URUGUAY proposed that the SBSTA consider the agricultural sector in 2010.
Singapore, Australia, Switzerland and Tuvalu suggested the inclusion at future workshops of presentations from developing countries that have not made pledges and from non-party experts.
On mainstreaming adaption into national policies and development programmes, he highlighted a project in Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan.
SAUDI ARABIA, China, for the G-77/CHINA, Jamaica, for AOSIS, SWAZILAND, ARGENTINA and the GAMBIA called for new institutional arrangements to be included in the agreement.
On the preamble, the US and CANADA, opposed by the G-77/ CHINA, urged deleting text recalling UNFCCC Articles 4.1 , 4.2 , 4.8  and 4.9 , and Protocol Articles 2 , 3.2 , 3.14  and 7 .
 The EU, opposed by the G-77/China, also proposed text requesting non-Annex I Parties to submit funding proposals for national communications even in advance of substantial completion of previous national communications, but not later than one year after the submission of their previous national communications.
CHINA, echoed by SAUDI ARABIA and IRAQ, said it should be necessary for applicants to first obtain approval from their national governments.
Mexico, for the EIG, said progress on REDD+ leaves it e2 80 9cpoised to become a mechanism ready to deliver real, permanent outcomes.
SOUTH AFRICA, the SUDAN, BOLIVIA, MEXICO and MAURITANIA suggested that the CDM include the concept of emissions avoidance.
In the morning, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to strengthen existing institutions, and include loss and damage in the agreement, among other issues.
The UK, EU, Germany, Sweden and Norway expressed concern regarding lack of balance in the report between environmental goals and the nature of other co-benefits and risks, particularly adverse side effects.
Venezuela, with Angola, for the African Group, drew attention to the option of not taking any decision on market approaches, while the US stressed the centrality of market approaches.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the importance of finance for implementation of Convention commitments, and for achieving progress on the Paris Agreement.
Throughout discussions, views remained polarized among parties such as Saudi Arabia, Norway, the EU, Japan and others who supported including CCS under the CDM and Jamaica, Venezuela, Micronesia and Brazil who, while noting the potential of CCS maintained that the technology has not been fully tested or proven, but could be considered at a later stage.
The EU said these rules should be adopted by the body itself, while KUWAIT, BRAZIL and CHINA said the COP/MOP should adopt these rules.
China, the EU, Norway and Switzerland called for provisions against backsliding.
Angola, for the LDCs, highlighted the need to elaborate, in the new text, a temperature goal consistent with science, welcoming reports on convergence on the 1.5 c2 b0C target.
The G-77/China, Argentina, and Brazil noted that the new UN General Assembly scale of assessments should not be applied automatically.
BRAZIL proposed adding reference to “tax border adjustments.” SINGAPORE supported retaining the idea while considering specific language.
China, Uganda and others stressed the importance of retaining the message.
Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Uruguay are actively campaigning to be selected as the host for the Permanent Secretariat.
Nigeria, for the African Group, noted that sub-Saharan Africa only accounts for 1.7% of CDM projects.
The UMBRELLA GROUP, the EU, BRAZIL and the LDCs, opposed by the LMDCs, proposed identifying elements that will go into a decision text.
MALAYSIA, MOZAMBIQUE, PORTUGAL, URUGUAY and KUWAIT also highlighted the need for technology transfer.
The US, supported by the UK and opposed by Saint Lucia, Switzerland, the Bahamas and Austria, suggested moving a sentence stating that e2 80 9cgreater rates and magnitude of climate change increase the likelihood of exceeding adaptation limits e2 80 9d to the section dealing with adaptation.
JAPAN stressed that his country cannot accept a simple extension of the Kyoto Protocol without participation of Protocol non-parties and major developing countries, while SAUDI ARABIA opposed differentiating among developing countries and the reference to more advanced ones.
SOUTH AFRICA, the SUDAN, BOLIVIA, MEXICO and MAURITANIA proposed including in the CDM the concept of emissions avoidance.
South Africa and Japan highlighted the need for a scientific assessment of new gases.
BRAZIL, CHINA and SOUTH AFRICA stressed that there are no links between AWG-KP and AWG-LCA.
CANADA, with MALAYSIA and AUSTRALIA, advocated discussing climate change research in addition to systematic observation.
With BELGIUM and SWITZERLAND, the NETHERLANDS underscored equity, effectiveness and efficiency.
The US, with Finland, noted that the workshops referred to in decision 1/CP.10 were already spoken for.
JAPAN, supported by the EU, said the experience gained is sufficient for a comprehensive review.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, highlighted the importance of reporting and review for Annex I and non-Annex I countries, and called for the COP to switch to two-year cycles.
 The Climate Action Network has been actively lobbying G-77 countries to endorse the AOSIS draft protocol, which calls for a reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 20% by the year 2005.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by ARGENTINA, AOSIS, SAUDI ARABIA and other developing countries, expressed disappointment at the lack of agreement on the financial mechanism.
AUSTRALIA noted potential for linkages with REDD and, with NORWAY, underlined the need to include CCS.
Nauru, for AOSIS, raised concerns over “window dressing,” such as accounting tricks and conditionalities, and supported a five-year commitment period.
 Regarding reductions in methane and nitrous oxide emissions, New Zealand, supported by China, proposed, and WGIII agreed, to add the clarifying text “in some agricultural systems” to reflect the non-universal nature of approaches.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, proposed preparing similar draft conclusions as at SBSTA 45, which take note of information received from ICAO and IMO.
The decision also includes reference to positive incentives, as proposed by Brazil, Papua New Guinea and others.
The G-77/CHINA stressed that existing institutions had failed as a finance delivery system, objected to co-financing and said that the architecture should be concentrated in “one house.” The AFRICAN GROUP underscored that financial mechanisms must be subject to MRV.
Parties also highlighted areas for further work, with Switzerland, for the EIG, identifying, inter alia, a mandatory provision for nationally determined mitigation contributions  and internationally transferred mitigation outcomes.
 The Plenary heard concluding statements from the Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, Algeria, on behalf of the African States, Antigua and Barbuda, on behalf of the Latin American and Caribbean Group, Executive Secretary Michael Zammit Cutajar, and Chile, on behalf of the Valdivia Group, before COP President Angela Merkel closed the meeting.
Guatemala noted the relevance of the IPCC expert meeting on Revisiting the Use of Managed Land as a Proxy for Estimating National Anthropogenic Emissions and Removals, held in May 2009 in Saõ Paulo, Brazil, and the delegates agreed to include a reference to the meeting report.
SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, recalled that AOSIS submitted its draft protocol at COP-1 and said the protocol is intended to complement, not supplant, the Convention.
The US, SWITZERLAND, SOUTH AFRICA, the EU, Solomon Islands, for the LDCs, Trinidad and Tobago, for AOSIS, BOTSWANA and NORWAY supported developing draft conclusions and a draft decision covering substantial matters.
Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, urged parties to conclude all elements of the Bali Action Plan under the AWG-LCA, including an agreement on institutional arrangements for REDD+ finance and a decision on the new market mechanism  covering the forest sector, in order to help bridge the ambition gap.
Germany, Austria and the Netherlands supported inviting governments to submit their views on policy-relevant questions for the SYR and on cross-cutting topics.
Saint Lucia, supported by New Zealand, proposed adding a reference to small islands.
  On Thursday, 10 December, the CMP adopted the report on credentials , with the addition of the Cook Islands, Egypt, Fiji, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Haiti, Honduras, Kiribati, Nicaragua, Pakistan and Panama.
CANADA underscored the importance of emphasizing the national context of sustainable development, while TUVALU stressed a broader approach.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called on parties to finalize the design and operationalization of the essential functions of the new mechanisms established by the Cancun Agreements.
Calling for a focus on LDCs, SIDS and the most vulnerable countries, Bangladesh said existing arrangements for delivery were insufficient.
 India, for Brazil, South Africa, India and China , said that the full elaboration of the ADP’s work plan will only be possible after the AWG-LCA and AWG-KP have concluded their work and that an outcome should reflect the historical responsibility of developed countries and view the Durban Platform as a historic opportunity to ensure that international climate regime evolves according to the realities of a changing world.
 The Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, noted that JI should not allow for the shifting of specific commitments of Annex I Parties to developing countries.
South Africa, for BASIC , regretted that some parties had refused to engage on finance and technology issues, and had prevented his group’s views from being reflected as options in negotiating text.
Ghana, supported by Senegal, proposed amendments to the Board’s rules of procedure to enable the Board to be represented by its Chair and Vice-Chair.
Following additional debate, the Panel agreed, in principle, to establish a task force, co-chaired by France and Mexico, and to agree on its mandate at IPCC-47, and to request submissions in the interim regarding the three options on alignment.
The United Kingdom pointed out that the two basic approaches under discussion, for a market or a fund as advocated by Papua New Guinea and Brazil respectively, are similar methodologically, except for the question of market access.
South Africa, for the African Group, highlighted the need for early warning systems, vulnerability mapping and information exchange.
CANADA and the EU argued that this issue is adequately addressed by previous decisions.
Relating to a paragraph on the scope of the 2015 agreement, the LDCs, supported by Nauru, for AOSIS, stressed loss and damage as a fundamental element of the 2015 agreement.
CHINA, BRAZIL and SOUTH AFRICA stressed that further work is needed on the issue of MRV of support to developing countries.
When commenting on the Chair’s revised draft conclusions during the AWG-LCA closing plenary on Sunday, Sudan, for the G-77/China, suggested indicating that the AWG-LCA “continue to work in strict conformity with principles of the UN that are inclusive, democratic, transparent, open and legitimate.” The US noted that these principles are not found in the UN Charter and cautioned against “being loose” with legal text.
AUSTRALIA, with JAPAN and others, said the consolidated text was not an appropriate basis for contact group discussion, and proposed revisiting the compilation of Parties 92 views.
The LMDCs, supported by Egypt, affirmed Ecuador had asked for the floor prior to the adoption.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for progress on agenda items facilitating the adaptation of SIDS to climate change.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed concern that a facilitative dialogue could represent an ex ante review and opposed this.
  During the first session, Hungary, for the European Union , confirmed that its Kyoto Protocol target had been met while growing gross domestic product  in the period 1990-2009.
Venezuela and Nicaragua stressed that countries should not be able to select beneficial elements of the multilateral process, while neglecting difficult elements.
The EU and Switzerland supported describing the purpose of MOI.
The US said flexibility could only be discussed in the context of common procedures, and, with NORWAY, that it depends on each country’s capacity.
MEXICO, supported by the EU, called for strengthening the technology component.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported: a pre-sessional roundtable on mitigation; a two-day workshop on transparency; and submissions on adaptation communications and the GST.
Participants also discussed a suggestion by Trinidad and Tobago regarding the development of a climate change data collection guidance document.
ECUADOR, CANADA, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, the EU, MEXICO, and BOLIVIA welcomed the Platform, highlighting the leadership of indigenous peoples in its operationalization.
Grenada, for AOSIS, submitted a proposal for a draft COP decision, containing, inter alia, a request for the AWG-LCA to “continue its work, with a renewed sense of urgency” in order to present to COP 17 “a legally-binding instrument under the Convention as its final agreed outcome.” COSTA RICA and a number of AOSIS members urged the AWG-LCA to continue working with a clear mandate to adopt a legally-binding instrument at COP 17 in Durban.
AOSIS and China supported strengthening the mandate of the Adaptation Committee to oversee UNFCCC adaptation efforts.
He said the EU accepts the concept of carbon sinks, especially forests, but, with the CENTRAL GROUP ELEVEN and NORWAY, stressed problems associated with permanence, uncertainty, risk, additionality and especially scale as it relates to the Umbrella Group proposal.
Supported by CHINA, KUWAIT and NIGERIA,
 AUSTRALIA, INDIA, the EU, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND supported the use of the Revised Guidelines by both Annex I and non-Annex I countries.
The EU, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND, CHINA and AOSIS, opposed by the US, JAPAN and INDIA, supported retaining the sub-paragraph, amended to refer to exploring the scientific, technological and socioeconomic aspects needed to achieve the UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective.
BARBADOS did not support Option C. PERU supported Option C but expressed doubts regarding methodology for forest management.
 COSTA RICA, on behalf of G-77/China, said the basic principle for choosing TAP members should be based on regional representation.
The UK, supported by Peru, underscored that the report should not be a commentary on current disaster relief, but rather focus on future adaptation to climate change.
Colombia highlighted that the package is “precisely balanced” and requested that it be adopted “without further ado.” Ecuador, noting that the texts need to be improved, recognized that they represent “important progress” and could serve as the basis for further work on the road to Durban.
Discussion on the proposed adaptation fund and the fund supporting specific concerns of LDCs was referred to a financial issues group proposed by President Pronk, despite the reservations expressed by the G-77/China, who held that the financial issues relating to the decision under Article 4.8 and 4.9 and Article 3.14 should not be discussed separately from action outlined by the decision.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the linkages between agenda items and asked for a non-prescriptive Co-Chairs’ note to help the negotiations progress.
The EU, Norway, Switzerland, China and AOSIS, opposed by the US, Japan and India, supported a sub-paragraph proposed by the Russian Federation referencing research priorities in support of the ultimate objective of the UNFCCC.
The NETHERLANDS, for the EU, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, expressed continued commitment to addressing climate change and highlighted the launch of the EU emissions trading scheme in January 2005.
Noting the importance of guiding principles, AOSIS and the LDCs noted that the SCCF 92s principles should not create obstacles in accessing financing.
Regarding the relevant Articles for consideration in the special report, the EU and the MARSHALL ISLANDS preferred deleting references to Articles 4 and 7 from a list including Articles 3.3, 3.4 and 3.7.
On the COP/ MOP rules, NORWAY and the US emphasized that institutional responsibilities be part of the COP-6 decision.
MAURITIUS, on behalf of the African Group, called for long-term sustained monitoring and projects leading to vulnerability assessment and adaptation methods and for more developing country scientists’ involvement in the IPCC.
A request from countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova  and a proposal by Croatia on LULUCF were forwarded to SB-17.
With the US, the REPUBLIC OF KOREA said debates on conceptual issues should not impede progress of the work programme.
Australia, with others, proposed the use of practical, simple tools to provide guidance on the effectiveness of adaptation measures, while South Africa stressed the need for evaluation of the programme of work itself.
The Dominican Republic, for Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica and Peru, underscored the sizeable steps taken on the AWG-LCA since Bali.
Saudi Arabia and Malaysia, for the Like Minded Developing Countries , stressed that the section is not necessary.
Colombia, for AILAC, expressed support for universal contributions, provided that there are net benefits for developing countries and developed countries continue to lead the efforts.
BOLIVIA, opposed by BRAZIL and PERU, called for simultaneous forward movement on the issue of sinks in the CDM in the contact groups on both LULUCF and the mechanisms.
Noting the late hour and stressing respect for the authors e2 80 99 proposal, Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Venezuela and China proposed acceptance of the text as presented.
Noting the IAC recommended that the IPCC address a full range of views, the Netherlands, supported by Slovenia and opposed by Australia, suggested including alternative theories, including the views of climate skeptics so they could receive scientific appraisal in the WG reports and the SYR.
  Papua New Guinea, for the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, presented key elements of a new market-based mechanism that is: envisaged only for financing phase 3 of REDD+ activities; on an appropriate national scale; and with a “hybrid” trading approach, whereby a national reference level is defined ex-ante and an equivalent allowance is issued.
A number of parties, including CHINA, CANADA and SAUDI ARABIA expressed reluctance to discuss compliance in-depth before reaching consensus on the legal form of the agreement.
 CHINA, supported by the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, INDIA, BURKINA FASO, MALAYSIA and the G-77/CHINA, proposed stating that any new substantive proposals must be communicated in draft form to all Parties six months before the ministerial segment.
The G-77/CHINA, with CHINA, URUGUAY and UGANDA, said that developing countries need financial support for R&amp;SO.
Uganda identified the need for a simple institutional architecture, and Canada supported a simple, effective and elastic mechanism.
The EU said the G-77/China draft programme lacked, inter alia, a clear timeline, deadlines and allocation of work to different bodies.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for progress on new work areas for the NWP, MRV and agriculture, addressing both mitigation and adaptation aspects.
The EU and Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, supported the proposal for a compilation text.
This was supported by the LDCs, SICA and several non-Annex I parties.
SAMOA, on behalf of the AOSIS, said that the Secretariat should prepare a document that addresses inputs for analysis and assessments in accordance with paragraph 5 of the BM .
Maldives, for AOSIS, underscored that ongoing work among parties would result in new language on loss and damage.
AOSIS underscored special focus on SIDS and LDCs, stressed that the current institutional arrangements are lacking and fragmented, and called for, inter alia, an adaptation body under the Convention and a new funding window.
The Republic of Korea, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , welcomed progress under research and systematic observation and looked forward to the report of the High-Level Taskforce on the Global Framework for Climate Services.
AUSTRALIA, supported by SWITZERLAND, the US and the EU, proposed considering “creative ways” of ensuring that work progresses productively.
Responding to questions from China, Australia, the US and others, the Lead Authors detailed the data-selection process and explained the statistical significance of the data sets.
Maldives, for AOSIS, emphasized a review of CDM modalities would create greater confidence in the CDM as a mitigation tool.
Grenada, for AOSIS, highlighted the need to encourage implementation of actions based on the NWP and, with Lesotho, for the LDCs, reiterated the call for a technical review of the science related to limiting temperature increase to under 1.5°C.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , stressed that the UNFCCC should remain the central international platform to address climate change.
The US and SINGAPORE welcomed the adoption of the CORSIA and the IMO’s amendment of the MARPOL Convention on fuel consumption by ships, with SINGAPORE stressing the need to develop long-term measures.
Responding to concerns from Tuvalu, Ghana, and Tanzania, for the LDCs, Facilitator La Viña highlighted that no informal consultations would be held that conflict with other meetings, and that the working method would rely on bilateral discussions.
Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said long-term climate finance should not be confined to US$100 billion annually and called for discussing a strategic approach to finance, including addressing sources, predictability, adequacy and stability, and ways to deliver the necessary scale of finance needed to stay below 2 c2 b0C.
Tuvalu, supported by AOSIS, argued that this agenda item required formal consideration, and proposed suspending the COP until the issue is resolved.
Australia and the Russian Federation argued for a non-binding regime and said their countries were more concerned about their own compliance than that of others.
The Gambia, for the LDCs and AOSIS, called for: Annex I parties, including those that have not taken up QELROs, to raise the ambition and submit legally-binding single-number QELROs without conditions for inclusion in an amended Annex B of the Protocol; a five-year second commitment period; and a dramatic cut in surplus AAUs from the first commitment period.
The PHILIPPINES asked for clarification about the role of the contact group and, with INDONESIA, expressed concern about the ability of small delegations to participate in contact groups.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, called for successful completion of the AWG-KP in order to make progress on a new protocol under the ADP, and supported a five-year second commitment period.
Brazil, China, Thailand, the Russian Federation and others, opposed by the EU, Switzerland and Ethiopia, supported deletion of the reference.
On the report of the SCF, the EU, with South Africa for the African Group, proposed working on the basis of the draft decisions contained the SCF report.
 : On Section L, the Maldives, for AOSIS, proposed text on a robust compliance system to facilitate enforcement.
The US, supported by Canada, Australia, and the EU, stressed the need for clarity on the basis for work before entering into discussions.
The G-77/CHINA, with BRAZIL and CANADA, noted that some issues need to be further addressed in the draft negotiating text.
Ghana, supported by Tanzania, India, Kenya, Angola, Nigeria, South Africa, Belgium, Algeria, Comoros, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Burkina Faso, and Bolivia, expressed concern that support for chapter scientists would drain the Trust Fund of its limited resources, rendering it ineffective in its support for Ph.D. and Post-Doctoral students; and called for immediate financial mobilization to ensure the Programme’s sustainability and facilitate the meaningful participation of developing countries in the IPCC.
South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that this review was for the first commitment period and the text reflects review for the second commitment period.
 Finland, for the EU, highlighted the dangers of delaying action, stressing that it is not seeking to impose binding targets on developing countries but to explore a range of options.
NORWAY, CANADA, the US, the EU and FRANCE supported the idea of allowing Annex I countries to meet their commitments through joint implementation .
GHANA, supported by BENIN and BANGLADESH, proposed a way forward, including discussion of option A, followed by discussion of issues in option B that, as identified by the Secretariat, flow directly from the amendment of Annex B, and concluding with discussions on other issues raised in option B. SWITZERLAND noted the need to ensure adequate time to cover all issues in option B. BRAZIL said any discussion outside of the mandate is a “waste” of the group’s time.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, warned that attempting to change the balanced Durban package will put Doha at risk.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for more adequately capturing parties’ views in iterations of draft text and emphasized the need to preserve the integrity of the Paris Agreement.
Norway, supported by Sweden, proposed inviting proposals from governments on additional themes for SRs.
China, Thailand and others identified the SBI, not the AWG-LCA, as the appropriate body to consider reporting guidelines.
The MARSHALL ISLANDS, with the EU and CHILE, preferred e2 80 9cpledges e2 80 9d to e2 80 9ccontributions.
Concerning a statement that reducing deforestation “can be implemented sustainably,” Tuvalu expressed concerns on the concept of sustainability and its relation to permanence issues, and delegates agreed to replace “sustainably” with Japan’s proposal of “socially and economically sustainable manner.” Belarus drew attention to the adverse impacts associated with bioenergy plantations.
Solomon Islands underscored that time is running out and called attention to the impacts of climate change on small island developing states  and LDCs.
Ghana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed the need to urgently implement adaptation actions, particularly in Africa, the LDCs and SIDS.
 South Africa, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed, inter alia: accelerating work under the SBI through 2020; implementing the NAP process and expanding the LEG mandate; finalizing nominations for the Executive Committee of the Warsaw Mechanism for Loss and Damage by the end of SB 42; and establishing an international institutional arrangement for capacity building.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, called for creating an accessible and simple NDC registry, and Mali, for the African Group, underlined the need to clarify its objective, function and nature.
 , Denmark, with Germany, called for adding text to provide a broader context on how mitigation and adaptation improve human well-being.
UGANDA, with CHILE, proposed developing a plan of action.
Australia, with Norway, indicated that a technology mechanism is not a single mechanism but a series of mechanisms, and underlined the importance of centers of excellence.
Germany and Hungary commented on the need for a productive ministerial segment.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called on developed countries to show the leadership and political will necessary to combat climate change.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed that a second commitment period is the cornerstone of a successful outcome.
Parties also agreed to consolidate two options under paragraph 109 on a collective goal/aim to transition to a world in which all investments are directed at resilient and low-emission actions, based on a proposal by Switzerland, for the EIG.
The EU, Samoa, New Zealand, Australia and Japan preferred the original broader formulation, or variations on this formulation.
SAUDI ARABIA, supported by KUWAIT, proposed addressing Protocol Articles 2.3 and 3.14  as a separate item on the agenda.
The EU, Norway, New Zealand and Japan, opposed by Saudi Arabia, supported having joint discussions with the AWG-LCA on cross-cutting issues.
SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA, the US, NIGERIA and BRAZIL said the paper developed by the Co-Chairs should be based on more sources of information.
On terms of appointment, FRANCE, with AUSTRIA, proposed that the IPCC Bureau nominate a suitable replacement in cases where an IPCC member fails to nominate a replacement candidate or is not confirmed by the Panel.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, said methodologies and approaches in developing countries should be nationally determined.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by AUSTRALIA, called for discussion of objectives and scope.
Mexico, for the EIG, underscored the importance of negotiations on Paris Agreement Article 6  and that the Nairobi work programme  should be enhanced.
Barbados, for AOSIS, highlighted safeguarding vulnerable countries as the central element of a shared vision.
SAUDI ARABIA, SOUTH AFRICA, BURUNDI and SENEGAL called for a governing body to coordinate capacity-building efforts, with SENEGAL calling for MRV of support to developing countries.
The Secretariat revised the Co-Chairs 92 proposal integrating the G-77/China and EU suggestions to reflect amendments made during the discussion.
Maldives, for AOSIS, and Ethiopia, for the LDCs, supported option 3.
Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, said legal issues should be also addressed in Durban.
Chile, for Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama and Peru, noted changing national circumstances and the need for incentives for developing countries to move to a low-carbon growth model.
China, echoed by Saudi Arabia and Iraq, said it should be necessary for applicant organizations to first obtain approval from their national governments.
UGANDA, the G-77/CHINA, ARGENTINA and several other developing countries called for focus on actions that will lead to the development and transfer of adaptation technologies.
AOSIS suggested 19 members, with three from each UN regional grouping, two from SIDS and two from LDCs.
Overall, differences reflected parties 92 previously stated positions, with the G-77/China stressing action and learning-by-doing, and the US favoring assessment in accordance with SBSTA 92s mandate as a body for scientific and technological advice.
The Netherlands and the Philippines agreed that the proposed language, “satellite records suggest a global trend toward more intense tropical cyclones since about 1970, correlated with observed warming of tropical sea surfaces temperatures,” was too strong.
SAUDI ARABIA urged adopting the Protocol amendment at COP/MOP 4, while the EU said it should form part of broader post-2012 discussions.
This issue had been considered at SBI 26, when the Umbrella Group and the EU asked the SBI to consider information from non-Annex I parties, taking the view that SBI could make “better use of the valuable information that these documents contain and assist non-Annex I parties to further improve these documents” .
The Philippines said the G-77 and China could give provisional approval to New Zealand"s proposed amendment.
 Following a brief consultation with the G-77/CHINA, Saudi Arabia and the EU, the Chair amended a reference to the SAR as “an assessment,” rather than a “clear indication” of the likelihood of climate change.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized the need to consider the “full gamut” of action on mitigation, adaptation, and means of implementation.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, underscored the Durban Platform as a universal platform to take international efforts on climate change forward by providing a “common ground” for all countries.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA and GUYANA stressed that political discussions on REDD should be left to the AWG-LCA and that the SBSTA should consider capacity building and methodological issues.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for text addressing the full set of issues in the Bali Action Plan, and for a second commitment period that enables scaling up ambition before 2014.
The EU, opposed by CHINA, said the Global Environment Facility  had provided most non-Annex I Parties with funding for national communications.
Brazil, for G-77/CHINA, said many constraints exist to receiving finance from the GEF, noting that although improvements have been achieved, the GEF has not been “very responsive” to concerns of developing countries.
The AFRICAN GROUP supported such a non-paper for adaptation communications, which the US, JAPAN and NORWAY opposed.
Argentina, for the G-77/China, inter alia: underlined the importance of annual reports on the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories; called on Annex II parties to intensify efforts to fulfill commitments on the provision of support; called for greater contribution to adaptation, without conditions; and expressed regret that the NEEDS project would not continue.
Austria, Germany and the UK proposed language to clarify the sentence, and WGIII agreed to move reference to expert debate to a footnote.
The LDCs, the EU and the US, opposed by INDIA, suggested considering South-South cooperation in the 2015 agreement.
Saint Lucia, opposed by Turkey, Belarus and Kazakhstan, proposed also deleting option 1, which states that Article 3.7ter is not applicable in the second commitment period of parties that did not have QELRCs during the first commitment period.
The EU expressed regret that not all parties could agree to the 2 baC objective, and AOSIS added that for vulnerable countries a 2 baC increase is too high.
Egypt, for the ARAB GROUP, supported by Saudi Arabia, for the LMDCs, pointed out that, inter alia, their request for response measures as a major heading was not respected.
South Africa, supported by Chad, Tanzania, WGII Vice-Chair Fischlin, and WGI Vice-Chair Aldrian, cautioned against eliminating funding for Ph.D. students altogether but expressed openness to new uses of these funds if they can increase developing country participation.
BHUTAN and NEPAL called attention to the specific vulnerabilities of ecosystems in mountainous countries.
On referencing emission sources, SWITZERLAND, supported by PAKISTAN, CHILE, NORWAY and others, noted that 93anthropogenic sources 94 was too vague as it could include land use, land use change, and forestry.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, underlined the need to articulate moral and equity aspects in principles.
Venezuela, supported by Senegal, called for incentives to increase participation of women in small delegations.
Presentations explored, inter alia: teacher training in sustainability education in Brazil; solar power sector training in Bangladesh; world-wide citizen consultations; and international cooperation on climate change training, citing best practices from Finland.
Chile, for AILAC, highlighted: the role of the Talanoa Dialogue in fostering a common understanding on ambition; the need for a system of rules consistent with scientific evidence; and the urgent need for coordination with ICAO on the Carbon Offsetting Scheme for International Aviation .
Spain, for the EU, highlighted its objective of ensuring that work in both tracks results in a comprehensive global legal framework, which limits temperature increase to below 2°C from pre-industrial levels.
The US, EU and Canada objected to a G-77/China call to include reference to a draft decision it had tabled earlier in the day, noting that they had not seen it.
Grenada, for AOSIS, called for urgent focus on a loss and damage work programme.
Australia, Canada and Switzerland supported the second option, in which the COP: would reiterate its invitation to each party to communicate to the Secretariat its INDCs towards achieving the objective of the Convention and agrees that each party’s INDC will represent a progression beyond the current undertaking of that party.
The COOK ISLANDS, while supporting inclusion of the G-77/China submission, stressed the importance of moving to substantive discussions.
Nauru, for AOSIS, called for a permanent seat for AOSIS on the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage, and cautioned against e2 80 9cnegotiation by exhaustion.
Ethiopia emphasized “glaring” differences in needs for capacity building in developing countries and, opposed by the US, called for commitments on capacity building.
INDIA, with Panama, for the CfRN, called for the new agreement to be anchored in the Convention and to include all its principles.
The PHILIPPINES said the AWG-LCA was not the right forum for discussing non-Annex I national communications and THAILAND noted that the revision of the non-Annex I reporting guidelines should be done by the SBI.
CHAD stressed that the only legally valid instrument for reducing greenhouse gases is the Protocol and, with TANZANIA, SENEGAL, AUSTRIA, MALAWI, and NORWAY, called for ratification by all countries.
Noting that Georgia had become a member of the EIG on Friday, 17 November, Mexico, for the EIG, said the “Bula and Talanoa approaches” had helped move work forward but noted that, in some areas of negotiations, progress lags behind the goals parties set themselves.
SAUDI ARABIA underlined the importance of negotiating “the full package” and several countries, including the EU, JAPAN and CUBA, called for ensuring coherence.
 The idea of emissions trading to achieve flexibility was supported by delegations such as NORWAY, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND and FRANCE.
Supported by SAUDI ARABIA, CHINA stressed parties’ considerable workload and urged focusing on the two AWGs and on a “constructive and balanced” outcome in Cancun.
Yemen, for the Group of 77 and China , stressed that further work by the AWG-LCA must be open, democratic, transparent and party-driven, centering on the implementation of the Bali Action Plan , and in line with the Convention’s principles, including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
Pasang Dolma Sherpa, International Indigenous Peoples Forum on Climate Change , Nepal, provided an overview of a global partnership initiative on CCE and training in Asia, Africa and Latin America in partnership with TEBTEBBA.
The EU and the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP supported grouping the "crunch issues" into clusters, and undertook to identify spokespersons for the individual issues by Tuesday morning.
Algeria, for the African Group, called for a clear distinction between issues to be addressed under the ADP for the post-2020 regime and issues to be finished by the AWG-LCA.
The EU highlighted the contact group’s “very specific mandate” to address Croatia’s appeal, while CANADA stated that the COP/MOP can take a comprehensive approach and also address the level of base year emissions.
Hungary, Sweden and others supported reporting on the carbon footprint of the IPCC.
The G-77/CHINA, RUSSIAN FEDERATION and US objected to text requesting the Secretariat to develop a draft work programme on the TAR.
Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed concern over the lack of substantive conclusions adopted during the session and urged working towards the adoption of substantive conclusions at SBI 42.
The Gambia, for the LDCs, reiterated that parties must conclude discussions confirming commitment to the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol before moving to negotiations on technical issues.
On addressing  , the G-77/China, AOSIS and Fiji highlighted insurance for extreme events, and, with Turkey, creation of a mechanism to address loss and damage.
NORWAY outlined a recent analysis on ways of achieving Norway 92s national emission targets, which include becoming carbon neutral by 2050.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported adopting the improved guidelines at COP-10, while the G-77/China preferred COP-9.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, called for the inclusion of three options on how to take forward work relating to the possible additional matter of modalities for communicating finance information in accordance with Agreement Article 9.5 .
Lesotho, for the LDCs, highlighted the importance of the NWP and research and systematic observation, and called for increased attention to the LDC work programme.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed consideration of the IPCC AR5 under the Structured Expert Dialogue .
INDIA said global sectoral approaches are not appropriate for developing countries, and UGANDA noted the need to address adverse effects of response measures.
UGANDA, with MALAWI, noted the need for improved access to funding for the LDCs.
The Bahamas, with Singapore, highlighted that per capita criteria disadvantage small countries, while other countries noted that GDP is not the only criterion of development.
Bangladesh, for the LDCs, with Tanzania and the Cook Islands, for AOSIS, proposed a reference to special concerns of LDCs, SIDS and African countries in the text on adaptation.
Tanzania, for the AFRICAN GROUP, and SOUTH AFRICA suggested reflecting in the preamble that all countries need adaptation actions, but focusing on developing countries in the main text.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, opposed by Samoa and Japan, said Article 3.14  was enforceable.
Nicaragua, South Africa, Zambia, Argentina, Chile and Bolivia preferred adopting a hybrid-financing approach.
Grenada, supported by the EU, suggested referring to the ways in which renewable energy technology has “improved dramatically,” as was done in the underlying report.
Norway emphasized universality and, with Switzerland, flexibility to accommodate parties’ different capabilities.
Saudi Arabia suggested bracketing “a quantifiable mitigation component” and, with Turkey, opposed reference to “evolving” national circumstances.
CANADA supported the modified Option C, as did HONDURAS, who supported Iceland on including soil productivity.
The EU praised it as an important result, and China hoped Annex I parties would submit sufficient information on the fulfillment of their commitments for the next review.
Sweden, Uganda, Mexico and others supported special and regional reports, especially on adaptation.
The Least Developed Countries , the Group of 77 and China , the Republic of Korea, Japan and others supported retaining text on  , while the EU preferred taking no decision, highlighting alternative ways to address regional distribution of the CDM.
Grenada, for AOSIS, urged SBSTA to prepare a draft COP decision on REDD and REDD-plus.
The AFRICAN GROUP, SOUTH AFRICA, Chile, for AILAC, Panama, for CfRN, AOSIS and MEXICO called for building on the existing MRV framework, with some suggesting it could evolve over time.
The Russian Federation, with Croatia, said spillover effects on all parties, particularly developing country parties, should be considered.
On Tuesday, 9 December, Saudi Arabia, for the G-77/China, requested that, pursuant to Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the provisional agenda for SBI-20 and subsequent sessions should include an item on the "continuing review of the function and operations of the Secretariat," and requested that this proposal be officially noted in the report of SBI-19.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, stressed that the APA must also be flexible and allow each item to move forward at its own pace.
 The meeting then adopted the Chair’s draft text on linkages between AG-13 and AGBM, as amended by the US and SOUTH AFRICA, asking the COP to decide that the AGBM may, in its consideration of a MCP, seek such advice as may be deemed necessary from AG-13.
AUSTRALIA, with CANADA, said addressing climate change is best served by a regime that includes commitments from all major emitters and said that the regime constructed under the AWG-LCA should “draw together actions by all.” AUSTRALIA underscored the need to resolve technical issues related to LULUCF under the AWG-KP track.
On examination of proposed new elements, the G-77/CHINA, opposed by CANADA and the US, supported clustering items.
Sudan, with Saudi Arabia, proposed a separate bullet on capacity building, and this was agreed to.
The UK and US emphasized the identification and evaluation of adaptation options.
Ethiopia, for the LDCs, called for informal and reflection notes, suggesting that some decisions could be taken at COP 23.
AOSIS, opposed by Norway, Poland and Canada, proposed removing reference to these being guidelines.
94 Additional text proposed by the US, and supported by Australia, Norway and Japan, recommended that subsidiary bodies and workshops be scheduled  93so as to minimize weekend travel wherever possible.
Germany noted that the meeting 92s report mistakenly referred to a  93representative 94 range of stabilization and reference scenarios, and with Belgium and France, called for strict adherence to the mandate of IPCC-26 with regard to the content and procedures for developing the new scenarios.
China, for the LMDCs, and Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, opposed by NEW ZEALAND, highlighted the need to define the scope of NDCs and reflect differentiation in the operational guidance as cross-cutting issues.
SAMOA presented on co-benefits of the use of solid waste from coconut biomass and said that Samoa aims to become a carbon-neutral holiday destination.
Yemen, for the G-77/CHINA, called for international organizations to harmonize actions under the NWP to avoid duplication of efforts and urged further country-driven actions.
China called for acknowledging that South-South cooperation is not a commitment of parties and, with India and Algeria, suggested mobilization and provision of finance be enhanced not “in coordination with,” but rather as “additional to,” official development assistance.
Kuwait expressed concerns about this issue being used to shift commitments from Annex I to non-Annex I parties The US said the IMO’s decision stems from its own mandate, which precedes the Kyoto Protocol.
Australia, Canada, Japan, and Norway underlined the need for a prompt start.
TUVALU, supported by GRENADA, KIRIBATI, EL SALVADOR, COSTA RICA, the COOK ISLANDS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, PALAU and BELIZE, stressed the importance of the issue, urged its proper substantive consideration through a contact group and said delaying the issue until Saturday will not allow this.
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, supported by MEXICO, NORWAY, and GRENADA, expressed support for the non-paper as a good basis for discussion; INDIA and SAUDI ARABIA noted that outstanding work remains before the paper can be used a basis for negotiation.
The EU, Japan, New Zealand and others highlighted that a quota system would be problematic for the market, with the EU noting it would undermine cost-effectiveness.
The G-77/CHINA, opposed by the US, called for the development of performance indicators to monitor progress in implementing relevant COP decisions.
 c2 a0Japan, supported by Germany, New Zealand and the US, cautioned that the involvement of the IPCC Chair and Secretariat would introduce complications in staff recruitment and management processes, and called for transparency on recruitment.
Saudi Arabia supported South Africa’s building blocks approach, underlining the importance of financing and technology transfer.
 The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, with CHINA, proposed extending the  Dialogue for two more years.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, Lesotho, for the LDCs, Sweden, for the EU, Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, and Uganda, for the LDC Expert Group, welcomed progress at SBI 31, but noted the importance of issues postponed to later sessions.
 Grenada, for AOSIS, stressed the objective in Cancun to agree on the amendment of the Kyoto Protocol as mandated by Protocol Article 3.9  and on consequential amendments to ensure the effectiveness of the Protocol.
Lesotho, for the LEAST DEVELOPED COUNTRIES , urged countries not to betray “the expectations of the anxious global population,” and supported bottom-up and inclusive procedures and the continuation of a two-track process.
India and Saudi Arabia suggested identifying and eliminating paragraphs and proposals inconsistent with the BAP and the Convention.
INDIA, ECUADOR and others expressed concern that the draft decision contained e2 80 9cclean text.
Japan and Canada noted the need to specify that the payment would be postponed until the first issuance of CERs.
 AGBM 2 saw the emergence of two new approaches to the structure and content of new commitments for Annex I Parties: the EU formal proposal for three annexes of policies and measures and the US and others\' recommendations for group and cumulative targets.
The US proposed additional text that non-Annex I Parties should submit national greenhouse gas inventories every two years, with LDCs submitting their inventories with their national communications.
BRAZIL stressed that the proposal would require an amendment to the Protocol and the REPUBLIC OF KOREA emphasized that it falls outside the AWG-KP’s mandate.
Under text on basis, INDIA, ALGERIA, EGYPT and OMAN expressed concern with deletion of language on the COP/MOP taking further action on issues, including commitment by Annex I parties to minimize adverse social, environmental and economic impacts on other parties of polices and measures, requesting that the reference be reinserted.
While the US, Canada, the EU and others accepted the text as a good basis for discussion, the G-77/China felt it needed more details on implementation.
New Zealand, UK, Norway, Switzerland, Argentina, US, France, Canada, Australia, Germany, Austria, Japan, Kenya, Sweden, and the Coordinating Lead Authors opposed this suggestion.
The EU, South Africa, Australia, and Colombia, for AILAC, stressed the need for quantifiability of NDCs.
The US and Norway noted that reporting and review are opportunities to build capacity.
Sierra Leone, for a number of members of the COALITION FOR RAINFOREST NATIONS, expressed preference for a five-year commitment period that would better enable considering new scientific results, and highlighted the need for clear rules to ensure environmental integrity.
Norway, Germany, Venezuela, China and Chile suggested another attempt at consensus, while Peru, the US, Australia, the UK and Saudi Arabia expressed regret at the loss of the information in the box, but supported its deletion.
The G-77/CHINA, with BOLIVIA and ALGERIA, expressed concern with the proliferation of groups.
On Frequently Asked Questions  to the WG II report, New Zealand recommended that lead authors “tease out some of these questions.” Austria stressed that some questions, such as those related to low-frequency high-impact events, are difficult to answer, but that answers are necessary to avoid maladaptation.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, supported limiting global average temperature increase to 2°C and a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
However, Germany, Australia, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Denmark and Belgium agreed with the recommendation and called on the IPCC to adopt it in its entirety, as the current formulation in Rule 19 of Annex C of the Principles Governing IPCC Work, only vaguely says Bureau members should have “relevant scientific expertise.”
 Austria, supported by Japan, and opposed by China, Brazil, Switzerland and Peru, suggested making a link between long-term targets for adaptation and mitigation.
  Co-Facilitator Andrei Marcu  presented text drafted the previous evening by the G-77/China, the EU and the Umbrella Group, to which parties agreed.
Following agreement on the recommendations of the workshop late on Friday afternoon, Luis G ef bf bdmez-Echeverri, UNFCCC Secretariat, made his closing remarks, thanking the Government of the Philippines, UNDP Philippines, the US, Spain and Switzerland, and APN, as well as the GEF and other multilateral and bilateral institutions.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, welcomed updates from other bodies to highlight linkages with APA work.Ethiopia, for the LDCs, with TURKEY, called for joint discussions between APA and the other subsidiary bodies.
  The EU and NORWAY requested, and parties agreed, to remove reference to economic diversification as no economic diversification activities had been undertaken.
Brazil stressed that for his country, the continuity of the Protocol is one of “the key aspects of the Copenhagen outcome.” Saudi Arabia, with Algeria, China and Oman, opposed “cherry-picking” elements of the Protocol and “killing it.”
GRENADA, the US, JAPAN and Botswana, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stressed learning from the Structured Expert Dialogue  on the 2013-2015 review.
The SBI convened in the afternoon to consider the adoption of its agenda, a request from a group of countries from Central Asia and the Caucasus, Albania and Moldova , and a proposal by Croatia on LULUCF.
NEW ZEALAND suggested a workshop on sectoral approaches to report to both AWGs, and JAPAN noted that sectoral approaches were useful in bridging the AWGs.
Niger, supported by Venezuela, requested that some funds be used for two centers of research in Africa that need funding to continue to contribute to capacity building and training for scientists from least developed countries.
NON-ANNEX I COMMUNICATIONS: Chair El Ghaouth  informed delegates that a drafting group had been working on a draft text compiling proposals by the EU, the G-77/CHINA and others, and suggested that the contact group adjourn to allow the drafting group to continue its work.
CHINA and SAUDI ARABIA said the Chair should not allow further negotiation on the text.
Fiji and Thailand requested references to the principles of the Convention.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, urged timely assistance for developing countries.
Saying parties had never before been so close to delivering an ambitious outcome, Guatemala, for AILAC, called for moving beyond national positions to a “solution cognizant of our collective interest.”
Bolivia, with Venezuela, urged the inclusion of non-market mechanisms.
The Netherlands and Turkey raised concerns over the definition of risk, with the Netherlands suggesting defining it as e2 80 9ca combination of exposure to hazards and vulnerability, e2 80 9d and Turkey proposing referring to the e2 80 9cprobability of climate change.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, expressed hope that the outcome would facilitate rapid progress.
 On Section G, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, supported by Egypt, for the AFRICAN GROUP, suggested that the agreement be arranged in clusters on, inter alia: scale of resources; assessment and review; and sources of finance.
 IPCC Secretary Christ explained that IPCC-28 would be held in Budapest, Hungary, in early April 2008, with IPCC-29 taking place in the Geneva, Switzerland, during the first week of September 2008, to celebrate the IPCC 92s 20th anniversary.
NORWAY expressed “strong support” for a legally-binding outcome, called for sufficient time to discuss it and supported Grenada’s proposal.
The G-77/China called for the will to implement "long overdue" actions on FCCC Article 4.8 and 4.9 at COP-6 and, supported by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jamaica, but opposed by the EU and the US, reiterated the call for two separate decisions.
FINLAND and DENMARK pledged support to the LDC Fund.
On adverse effects of climate change, and supported by CANADA and AUSTRALIA, he advocated starting with each Party\'s own assessment of its vulnerability in initial national communications.
Norway, Switzerland and Singapore called for a broadened focus on governance issues without challenging national sovereignty.
On measuring, reporting and verifying , the EU, Brazil and others underscored comparability of efforts and action by Annex I non-ratifiers of the Protocol.
NORWAY introduced a proposal by Norway, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Canada, the US and Australia, intended to set up a work programme up to 2014 to seek further clarification on pledges’ underlying assumptions, before parties start reporting on their achievement of mitigation targets.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/CHINA, supported a short meeting of only the AWGs.
Swaziland, for the African Group, supported limited use of carbon markets, and highlighted the need for establishing accounting rules and processes for technology transfer, among other measures.
On party submissions on REDD+ finance, Guyana, supported by the Philippines, highlighted that the 2ºC target can only be achieved if REDD+ is part of the solution.
The US and CHINA said that identifying experts without a clear understanding of the TAPs could not be done on the basis of informal consultations.
SAUDI ARABIA supported Singapore on the centrality of national circumstances, and added that any country’s contribution “is, has been and will be nationally-driven.”
JAPAN stressed their proposal to express targets as absolute emission reductions, while TUVALU said that having multiple metrics would complicate things and make it difficult to determine Annex I aggregate emission reductions.
Many parties, including Mali, Costa Rica for AILAC, the US, Maldives for AOSIS, the Democratic Republic of the Congo for the LDCs, and the EU supported the Presidency’s proposal.
Switzerland and Haiti, opposed by India, Ecuador and Venezuela, favored referring to “ecosystem goods and services” rather than “ecosystem products” in the chapter’s title, but this was not taken on board.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, requested adding sections on general principles and the purpose of the global stocktake with reference to the Convention, and on outcomes.
On Friday, 17 November, Switzerland, on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group, introduced a proposal to limit credits for carbon sequestration due to windfall effects caused by, inter alia, carbon dioxide fertilization, nitrogen deposition, and age structure effects of forests.
The EU highlighted that market mechanisms would enhance mitigation efforts, while Venezuela stressed that no consensus existed on markets.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, emphasized the 2013-2015 review, adaptation, MOI and gender.
The entire text was bracketed, following a proposal by Tuvalu, for the LDCs.
The REPUBLIC OF KOREA, opposed by HUNGARY and CHINA, argued in favor of host-generated unilateral CDM projects.
Regarding the need for a channel for communicating impacts and consequences of policies and measures in paragraph 14, NEW ZEALAND, supported by the EU and opposed by the G-77/CHINA, identified national communications as the appropriate channel for such reporting.
Spain, for the EU, preferred discussing technical issues relating to LULUCF rules and surplus AAUs before discussing how to raise the level of ambition, stressing that the rules affect the level of ambition.
INDONESIA said he had no objection to using existing institutions if they are reformed and, with BANGLADESH, preferred the establishment of a flexible and efficient single fund with multiple windows.
Switzerland, for the EIG, supported a work plan with broad guidelines and milestones for continuing work to 2015, as well as focused and technical work and mitigation action in addition to what is already on the table.
Many, including New Zealand, US, Austria and Japan, expressed a deep concern about the delay with hiring a senior communications specialist who should be involved in the development of the strategy.
Canada, supported by the UK, proposed new text highlighting the need to be more direct and proposed taking a decision at this session.
The G-77/CHINA said the draft APA conclusions should remain as they are, and proposed “putting them aside.” He suggested consultations on where and how to address the African Group’s proposal.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, speaking for Costa Rica, Panama, Peru and Mexico, presented on a strategic programme on market-based approaches, which is a domestically-driven, self-funded action through programmes and measures, encompassing different sectors and large segments of local economies.
Argentina, the G-77/China and others expressed concern that this group was not established using the usual process.
On text defining “agreement,” Australia proposed “convergence in the literature,” and Canada proposed “concurrence.” While participants granted that “convergence” was preferable to “concurrence,” they agreed to “concurrence in the literature” because the word “convergence” in climate change is often associated with a mitigation strategy known as “convergence and contraction.” WGIII agreed to specify that “literature” refers to “literature qualifying under the IPCC rules,” and to add an explanation for “agreement” in the glossary.
 On Tuesday, 1 December, SBI Chair Yauvoli informed that the multilateral assessment of Belarus and Kazakhstan would complete the third and final multilateral assessment working group session of the first round of the IAR process.
Sudan, supported by the US, cautioned against duplication of research in the WGI report and the SRs.
On consequences applied by the enforcement branch, JAPAN, opposed by the EU, proposed deleting the paragraphs providing for consequences in case of non-compliance with Protocol Articles 5.1 , 5.2 , 7.1  and 7.4 .
The EU, PAPUA NEW GUINEA and COLOMBIA called for consideration of the relationship of permanence and leakage with operational language.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, said implementation should focus on addressing barriers to finance and IPRs with a balanced emphasis on mitigation and adaptation technologies.
Most Asian countries, including the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Mongolia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal, focused on the inadequate obligations of Annex I Parties and provision of financial resources and called for adoption of the \'Green Paper.\' India and Bangladesh cited their environmental vulnerability and recent natural disasters as reason for immediate action on a protocol.
Calling for a strong outcome in Copenhagen, Switzerland, for the Environmental Integrity Group, stressed that it is not acceptable to begin a new roadmap in Copenhagen and said that the non-papers from the Bangkok session provide a good basis for substantive progress in Barcelona.
He expressed regret at the passing away of two prominent figures in climate change negotiations: Jean Ripert of France, who chaired the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee that resulted in the adoption of the FCCC in 1992; and Shukong Zhong, Special Advisor on Environmental Issues in China 92s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
 BRAZIL, PARAGUAY and Grenada, for AOSIS, opposed CCS under the CDM at this time, while AUSTRALIA, SAUDI ARABIA, JAPAN, KUWAIT and the EU supported its inclusion.
VANUATU, on behalf of the LDCs, called for assistance in implementing the UNFCCC and Protocol, and the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC urged a specific decision on UNFCCC Article 4.9 .
Saudi Arabia, China, the Russian Federation and Libya opposed inclusion of SRES scenarios, but many others supported their inclusion.
Eventually, the Co-Chairs, in a move that had exhausted delegates reaching for never-opened rulebooks in the dying hours of the meeting, invoked the rules of procedure to address lack of consensus, and Saudi Arabia and Egypt registered reservations in the final meeting report.
Another major area of disagreement was whether adaptation or mitigation activities should be assigned a higher priority and greater share of financing, with the US and EU favoring mitigation in accordance with Convention Article 2  and COP guidance, and the G-77/China stressing adaptation as the key concern for developing countries and the need for the financial mechanism to be fully responsive to developing countries 92 needs.
Others, including Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Lesotho, Sudan, the Russian Federation, the Philippines, China, Niger, Brazil, Côte d’Ivoire and Iran, said that a body should not be created until its functions are determined.
Bhutan, Nepal and Peru drew attention to the significant effects of climate change on fragile mountain ecosystems.
On paragraph 15 on tools to assist developing countries in assessing and dealing with potential consequences, containing two options, New Zealand, supported by the G-77/China, noted that the tools mentioned in the paragraph appeared to be a random selection of available tools.
The EU and NORWAY called for a 93shared vision 94 to reach the  UNFCCC 92s ultimate objective.
Norway, supported by Sudan, Finland, Iceland, Peru and Mexico, also suggested a workshop in collaboration with the WMO on managing risks of extreme events.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, underscored the important and vital mandate of the Bali Action Plan and welcomed the robust discussions in Accra.
 SINGAPORE, JAPAN, the EU, ARGENTINA and CHILE welcomed work by the International Maritime Organization  and International Civil Aviation Organization , with CHILE calling for consistency with the Paris Agreement rulebook.
JAPAN and the MARSHALL ISLANDS said consideration of compensation was unacceptable as it is not provided for in the FCCC or the Protocol.
SWITZERLAND supported including those submissions that are not reflected in the non-paper, and TUVALU said that submissions provided at this session should be taken into account.
 France, on behalf of the EU, and supported by Poland and Hungary, urged COP-1 to map out a protocol mandate, which would establish an open-ended ad hoc working group, require a report for COP-2 and set guidelines for conclusions.
The Republic of Korea, for the EIG, expressed a commitment to a strengthened, comprehensive and ambitious international climate change regime.
Australia opposed a spin-off group, pointing to Decision 2/CP.17, which “consolidates all progressive discussions related to response measures under the Convention.” Saudi Arabia stressed that parties are working to complete and not consolidate work, and that he does not see a mandate for consolidation.
On mitigation in the agriculture sector, Uruguay, supported by New Zealand, called for increased action, and proposed a workshop on this topic in Poznan.
Maldives, for AOSIS, underscored the need for adequate space to consider interlinkages and cross-cutting issues.
The US preferred treating bunker emissions separately from national inventories, which the EU said results in no direct incentives to limit or reduce bunker emissions.
The G-77/CHINA and AILAC suggested technical experts could serve as triggers, and SWITZERLAND added the Secretariat.
Grenada, for AOSIS, JAMAICA, PERU and BRAZIL, opposed by NORWAY and SAUDI ARABIA, supported retaining the text in the preamble.
The RUSSIAN FEDERATION and ARGENTINA emphasized the interaction of climate policies and trade.
The EU, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, US and SWITZERLAND preferred a single decision.
Stressing that the national adaptation plans should not be prescriptive, Bolivia, for the G-77/CHINA, said they should recognize that adaptation occurs at the local level, and be flexible and country-driven.
COLOMBIA and MEXICO, supported by SOUTH AFRICA, emphasized the need to consider sustainable development.
 Many workshops and meetings have taken place under the NWP since its inception, including: a workshop on climate-related risks and extreme events from 18-20 June 2007, in Cairo, Egypt; a workshop on adaptation planning and practices from 10-12 September 2007, in Rome, Italy; expert group meetings on methods and tools, and on data and observations, from 4-7 March 2008, in Mexico City; and an expert group meeting on socioeconomic information from 10-12 March 2008, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.
 : The COP/MOP adopted the report of the session  and a resolution  by Mexico commending Denmark for the excellent arrangements at COP/MOP 5.
ZIMBABWE, on behalf of the G-77/CHINA, said FCCC Articles 4.8 and 4.9 were long overdue for implementation.
A/R issues, in particular, the eligibility of land, were raised by Brazil, Colombia, Bolivia and a number of other Latin American countries, who objected to what they regarded as a restrictive interpretation by the Board of procedures for defining eligibility in Annex 18 to a report by the Board at its 26th session.
ETHIOPIA, supported by BRAZIL, suggested a technical workshop.
GHANA suggested that the SCCF provide resources to non-Annex I Parties not identified as LDCs to enable them to prepare their adaptation plans and strategies.
New proposals for finance and technology, such as a Convention financial mechanism and a technology transfer mechanism, were introduced by the G-77/China, in addition to the EU proposal on technology transfer.
Many expressed their hope that the Protocol could enter into force by the August 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development , with the EU and Japan announcing their ratifications just prior to the Summit.
Australia and New Zealand opposed a “bifurcated” approach.
  Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, emphasized that the AWG-LCA should be an open, party-driven, transparent and inclusive process and that concrete proposals for specific amounts of financing had yet to be made.
BOLIVIA, BURKINA FASO and CANADA suggested that the existing lack of incentives for sustainable forestry and land management among low-income communities in developing countries be sufficient proof of additionality.
Pachauri, supported by Switzerland and Norway, proposed that the new Bureau consider the issue and report back to the IPCC.
Reaffirming that the pre-2020 mitigation ambition is an absolute priority for AOSIS, the MARSHALL ISLANDS stressed the need to provide regular opportunities for high-level meetings that put the issue of removal of conditions at the top of the political agenda.
Sudan, for the G-77/CHINA, preferred deferring discussions until clarity has been achieved on the other building blocks.
Penny Wong, Minister for Climate and Water of Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for an agreement delivering an environmental outcome and which has legally-binding commitments for all major economies to realize a 50% reduction in global emissions by 2050.
South Africa, for the G-77/China, welcomed constructive engagement on agriculture and conclusion of negotiations on REDD+ methodological guidance.
Opposed by Saudi Arabia and supported by Mexico and the EU, Brazil recommended renewing SBSTA 92s mandate on this issue.
  The EU, opposed by CHINA, said SBSTA conclusions should include a reference to substitutes for ozone depleting substances, as contained in the report of the 20th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol.
 Under this agenda item , Saint Lucia, for AOSIS, noted that non-market approaches were helpful in situations of low abatement costs, risks of non-permanence and low data reliability.
India called for “factoring in” differentiation, and the Arab Group said methodologies and approaches in developing countries should be nationally determined.
On Article 4 , Chair Dovland noted that the EU and Umbrella Group were holding bilateral consultations, and that the issue would not be forwarded to ministers.
On paragraph 8 , delegates agreed, based on proposals from GHANA and the EU, that the Multilateral Consultative Committee should comprise persons nominated by governments who are experts in relevant fields, such as science, socioeconomics and the environment.
ARGENTINA, supported by CHINA, said that the TORs should not include contentious issues being discussed in the AWG-LCA and should focus on activities under the Convention.
Saudi Arabia, for the ARAB GROUP, stressed clarity, transparency and understanding as the main criteria, and noted his country’s INDC is centered on adaptation and economic diversification with mitigation co-benefits.
Norway, Japan, the Republic of Korea and others agreed on the merits of the second option, but, with TFI Co-Chair Taka Hiraishi, questioned its feasibility, given the need for a clear and sustainable decision on arrangements to be in place before IPCC-42.
Norway, supported by IPCC Vice-Chair Barrett, WGII Vice-Chair Zatari, WGI Vice-Chair Vera, Luxembourg, Belgium, Venezuela, and Sudan, suggested broadening consideration of gender to cover more than just gender balance.
AUSTRALIA urged moving forward on the basis of the Co-Chairs e2 80 99 text and expressed hesitation over working on the basis of text proposals being considered by the G-77/China.
PERU and PARAGUAY said adaptation should maintain ecosystems, and called for strengthening community participation, including of indigenous communities.
The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that due to the lack of time, the decisions should be "applied but not adopted," similar to the Rules of Procedure at COP 1.
Peru, for the INDEPENDENT ASSOCIATION OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN , called for progress on, inter alia: designing the 2018 facilitative dialogue; adopting a gender action plan; and supporting work on emerging issues such as oceans, health and indigenous peoples.
Swaziland, for the AFRICAN GROUP, urged the AWG-LCA to give full consideration to adaptation, finance, response measures, and technology transfer and shared vision.
On the linkage between CDM and LULUCF, Brazil, with the G-77/ China, argued that CDM discussions be contingent on decisions in the LULUCF contact group, and objected to a proposed presentation by the Secretariat on this issue, and to a question-and-answer session by the Chair.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, urged creating regional databases and providing MOI.
On implementation, the EU, with NORWAY and the US, emphasized the need for EITs to provide an enabling environment.
Luxembourg, speaking for the EU, said SBI had made good progress.
UGANDA, BURKINA FASO, the MARSHALL ISLANDS and SAMOA said not all issues could be advanced simultaneously and stated that waiting for a package would delay action.
The EU proposed maximizing synergies, promoting linkages to mitigation and, with CANADA, a review of the programme following publication of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report.
Several non-Annex I countries, including China, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, India and Singapore, argued that the list of five issues in decision 4/CMP.3 is exhaustive.
With the addition of reference to the transport sector, as proposed by Luxembourg and France, the paragraph was agreed with minor editorial changes.
Nauru, for the ALLIANCE OF SMALL ISLAND STATES , called for including a mechanism on loss and damage in the 2015 agreement, and said ADP 2-6 should clarify that the COP 21 outcome will be a legally-binding protocol under the Convention and keep warming below 1.5 c2 b0C.
On sources of information, the EU, US, CANADA and NEW ZEALAND opposed a suggestion by SAUDI ARABIA to delete reference to NGOs and IGOs.
The EU, the US, Australia, Canada, Japan and Poland supported designating the GEF as the permanent entity entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism.
Malawi, for the LDCs, called for improving access to finance.
The AFRICAN GROUP, BOLIVIA and TUVALU noted the importance of the implementation of adaptation actions.
The EU and GABON shared views on how various processes under the Convention facilitate the development of early warning systems and contingency plans, with the EU emphasizing the role of the TEMs and international actors outside the UNFCCC.
On next steps, countries agreed to have a roundtable, as proposed by Colombia, for AILAC, and China, for the LMDCs, instead of workshops.
 On the legal character of QELROs, NORWAY, ICELAND, the MARSHALL ISLANDS, the EU, CHILE, EGYPT, MOROCCO, MAURITIUS and SAMOA, on behalf of AOSIS, called for legally-binding commitments for Annex I countries, but MOROCCO cautioned against negative impacts on developing countries.
Iran, Argentina and Algeria said that technology transfer should proceed under the principles and provisions of the Convention.
The EU, Switzerland and others also supported exclusion, but said they could consider allowing them if provisions effectively prevented perverse incentives.
NORWAY and CANADA suggested that some recommendations on streamlining the process could be implemented straight away.
Lesotho, for LDCs, reiterated its support for two-track negotiations.
CHINA, KUWAIT and INDIA emphasized that the Convention and Protocol contain no references to “major emitters,” “advanced developing countries” or “environmental integrity” and that discussions should be based on historical responsibility and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Grenada, for AOSIS, noted options to improve the aggregate level of ambition, including: removing the surplus built into 2020 pledges and excluding LULUCF credits exceeding BAU; removing AAU carry over from the first to the second commitment period; removing LULUCF crediting; and agreeing to move to the top of parties pledged ranges.
Ghana highlighted the importance of innovative mechanisms, incentives and, with Brazil and others, North-South and South-South cooperation.
The EU, Norway, Luxembourg and Brazil asked that the bullet point on calculations of emissions and removals not be restricted to non-managed land.
Tuvalu and Pakistan cautioned against including text from the Copenhagen Accord.
SINGAPORE and JAPAN commended the progress made by ICAO and IMO.
Algeria, for the African Group, underscored the need for adaptation and massively scaled-up and predictable funding.
On a paragraph requesting the Secretariat to organize a stock taking exercise and exchange of views immediately before SB-17, the EU, SAMOA, POLAND and SWITZERLAND preferred this exercise to take the form of an intersessional informal consultation, while the US, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA and SAUDI ARABIA favored holding a side event.
On mitigation contributions or commitments, Saudi Arabia said the subsection title should include “actions.” China suggested structuring the subsection so as to differentiate enhanced mitigation action by developed and developing countries.
Nauru, for AOSIS, said that discussions under the two workstreams should remain separate and that adequate time needs to be dedicated to each.
SOUTH AFRICA and IRAN noted that COP-4 cannot finalize work on setting modalities and guidelines for the mechanisms.
The EU, New Zealand, Singapore, Micronesia and others supported the IMO’s work.
The US, Japan, New Zealand and the EU supported 1 January 2007 as this deadline, while Samoa preferred the year 2005, so as to allow a pre-first commitment period review and determination of eligibility to participate in the mechanisms.
The US stated that the document failed to mentioned an administrative official whose services were supplied by the US, and CANADA pledged to contribute C$65,000.
Several countries elaborated on their earlier proposals on financing, in particular Norway, Mexico, Switzerland and the Republic of Korea.
INDIA, with CHINA, stressed the importance of including the notion of common but differentiated responsibilities in the principles section.
COSTA RICA, for Chile, Colombia and Peru, encouraged the UNFCCC to further engage with other multilateral bodies, namely ICAO and IMO.
TANZANIA and MALI prioritized the transfer of adaptation-related technology.
Gabon, for the AFRICAN GROUP, expressed concern with slow progress on Agreement Article 9.5, and APA agenda items 3  and 4 .
94 Belgium proposed language combining the two 93equally correct perspectives, 94 which was supported by an Author and opposed by China and India.
Responding to a round of questions from the EU, New Zealand, Switzerland, Nepal, Australia, Norway, the US, Senegal and Kenya, presenters addressed: their expectations regarding the mix of public finance and carbon finance from abroad; economic growth assumptions; expectations of support for preparing NAMAs; the use of market mechanisms; carbon accounting methods; and institutional arrangements for the preparation of NAMAs.
The African Group, the EU and the Umbrella Group, with the exception of the US, submitted draft texts .
AUSTRALIA and the EU opposed, with the EU saying the proposal would not create the clarity required for coherent political discussions.
The UK and Norway, opposed by Canada, supported a section on geoengineering in the SYR, with Norway highlighting the need to discuss the merits and risk of different geoengineering options.
Germany, supported by the UK and New Zealand, called for greater attention to mitigation strategies.
India, supported by Saudi Arabia, Iran and Egypt, proposed deleting sub-paragraphs   and   because they imposed new conditionalities on activities undertaken outside the framework of the financial mechanism.
SOUTH AFRICA, with BRAZIL, CHINA and SINGAPORE, underscored that NAMAs are country-driven, diverse and must respect national circumstances; and expressed reservations about their standardization.
The EU and the US welcomed the GEF report, especially the operational strategy and its emphasis on enabling activities, and, along with POLAND, supported designation of the GEF as the permanent funding mechanism.
The G-77/CHINA, CANADA and SWITZERLAND also supported party-to-party triggers.
Several Parties, including Norway, Iceland, the EU, South Africa, AOSIS, Burkina Faso and Canada, urged discussions on energy.
Gabon, for the African Group, objected to the use in the documents on this item of the non-official name “UN Climate Change.”
On funding sources, the US, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, SWITZERLAND and others stressed the need to consider the report by the UN Secretary-General’s High-level Advisory Group on Climate Change Funding.
South Africa, for the AFRICAN GROUP, underscored that “there is no ambition without commitments” and stressed that work on ambition under the ADP does not substitute commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and negotiations on mitigation under the AWG-LCA.
On Accounting, SWITZERLAND, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP, supported full carbon accounting.
Regarding which additional activities should be included under Protocol Article 3.4, JAPAN and the RUSSIAN FEDERATION said activities should be defined broadly and based on national circumstances.
The EU, SWITZERLAND and SLOVENIA said COP- 4 should agree on as many principles as possible and adopt detailed schedules to implement the Kyoto Protocol.
In addition, the EC has sent an overview, Belgium has provided a summary, and Liechtenstein  has sent in a national communication.
Switzerland, for the EIG, welcomed progress in Panama, but underscored outstanding work on the road to Durban.
CHINA highlighted the need for continuity and simplicity and, with TUVALU and the EU, supported retaining 1990 as the base year.
DENMARK called on the GEF to be more responsive to LDCs 92 needs and proposed support equivalent to 0.1% of Gross National Products in additional funds.
UGANDA, for the LDCs, supported adopting the improved guidelines at COP-10, while the G-77/ CHINA preferred COP-9.
The AFRICAN GROUP, SWITZERLAND, CHINA, INDIA, INDONESIA and TANZANIA underscored implementation of existing commitments.
 The PHILIPPINES, on behalf of the G-77 and China, said that there were diverse capacities within developing countries regarding technology and finances.
The US and NORWAY highlighted integrating adaptation into national planning and policies as a critical element.
Chair Estrada, opposed by Canada, Australia, and Japan, said submissions on this issue made by Saudi Arabia and Iran could be compiled in a miscellaneous document for consideration by COP-8.
Sudan, for the AFRICAN GROUP, stated that INDCs and elements of the 2015 agreement are aspects of the same mandate, expressing concern over the presentation of two separate documents.
BRAZIL, with COLOMBIA, supported defining limits to the use of market mechanisms.
Iran, on behalf of the G-77/China, supported completion of work forwarded from COP-6 Part II, adding that this is not the right forum to raise the question of new or additional commitments by developing countries.
IRAN requested SAUDI ARABIA to join the consensus regarding the level of ambition of the JWG.
The US, with JAPAN, stressed the importance of due process in the enforcement procedure.
Parties also discussed prioritizing parties or referencing the most vulnerable parties, with Argentina, China, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and others initially opposed.
On sources of information, SAMOA suggested any source the compliance body deemed appropriate, while IRAN said Parties should be the only source.
NIGERIA and ZIMBABWE expressed concern about an approach that might divide the needs of LDCs and other developing countries, and supported considering the needs of all developing countries together.
Norway, Papua New Guinea, Cambodia, Guyana and others highlighted the importance of a phased approach.
Regarding the draft guidance for reporting on global climate observation systems, the EU, with MONGOLIA, recommended that Annex I Parties prepare a separate report and include in their national communications a summary based on general reporting requirements.
KUWAIT and EGYPT announced their imminent ratifications of the Protocol.
AUSTRALIA and JAPAN stated that its form should follow its content, while the RUSSIAN FEDERATION, CHINA, BANGLADESH, MARSHALL ISLANDS and MEXICO preferred a separate protocol.
Uganda, for the LDCs, supported looking at the key elements that would constitute a decision on finance.
Australia, for the Umbrella Group, said that a central component of COP 23 must be a strong and effective enhanced transparency framework.
INDONESIA and INDIA urged ratification of the Doha Amendment.
JAPAN supported Canada 92s statement and expressed "alarm" at how this issue had been addressed.
The US, supported by Jamaica, for AOSIS, warned against prescribing the contents of countries’ adaptation communications.
CUBA, for Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Ecuador, Egypt, Malaysia, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Thailand, Pakistan, Uruguay, Sierra Leone, Paraguay, India and Bolivia, supported by CHINA, outlined elements that should guide International Civil Aviation Organization  and IMO, including: Article 2.2 of the Kyoto Protocol ; and respect the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities ; and recognition of the legal distinction between developed and developing countries’ obligations.
China and Saudi Arabia called for qualifying the probability of “very likely,” replacing it with “likely” or “increasingly very likely.” This controversial issue was finally withdrawn with a rather benign footnote stating that consideration of the remaining uncertainties was based on current methodologies.
SAUDI ARABIA, opposed by BARBADOS, requested referencing the impact of response measures throughout the text and Convention Article 4.8  for defining developing countries.
The US noted the lack of differentiation among parties in the disarmament treaty referred to by Brazil.
Although the deal was accepted by most regional groups, including the G-77/China and the EU, the Umbrella Group  did not join the consensus, with key issues of dispute including eligibility requirements and bankability under the mechanisms.
Japan, the UK and others stressed the importance of keeping the mitigation sentence.
Iran, with Germany, Belgium and Australia, highlighted the need for in-depth consideration of this issue.
Sweden, for the European Union , called for an inclusive Copenhagen agreement, encompassing non-Annex I parties, covering all building blocks based on the principles of the Convention.
 On Friday, 31 March 1995, the Philippines, on behalf of the G-77 and China, introduced a draft decision on technology transfer that asked the Secretariat to compile an itemized report on technology transfer activities of Annex II Parties, directed the Secretariat to prepare an inventory of potentially transferable technologies, and requested that all measures be reviewed and evaluated at subsequent COPs.
Colombia, for AILAC, and Jamaica, for AOSIS, called for a streamlined purpose, which AILAC said is to catalyze and enhance adaptation action.
At the first meeting of the contact group on Friday, 6 June, the EU, supported by the US, suggested holding workshops to share information on sector or sub-sector specific activities.
The LDCs, the EU and the US, opposed by India, suggested considering South-South cooperation in the 2015 agreement.
Outstanding issues include the welcoming of informal initiatives by Japan and China in facilitating dialogue and the continuance of the pilot project on networking between the UNFCCC technology information clearing house and regional and national technology information centers.
While several textual inputs were provided, BRAZIL, the US and others cautioned against extensive additions of text in the preambular paragraphs and called for focusing on substance.
Australia stressed ensuring the availability of financial resources and, with the US, reviewing the success of the TEMs.
The Cook Islands, for AOSIS, suggested that Bolivia raise the matter in the COP/MOP plenary.
AUSTRALIA, with NEW ZEALAND, said that the Montreal Protocol language may not be appropriate and preferred referring to national security.
On outcomes from COP-5, the UK, supported by KAZAKHSTAN and the US, and opposed by SAUDI ARABIA, proposed a Bonn Declaration reaffirming the political will to complete the BAPA by COP-6.
 There was support for both the draft protocols submitted by the EU and AOSIS.
The LDCs and AOSIS underscored the need to recognize the special circumstances of LDCs and SIDS.
Zambia, for the Least Developed Countries , said the draft governing instrument provides sufficient basis for a financial institutional arrangement.
In response to the EU, the US highlighted the ability of countries to determine their own budgets and the penalty for emission borrowing.
NORWAY and ARGENTINA inquired about addressing emissions from bunker fuels and COP President’s Special Representative Hedegaard explained that text would be available in the afternoon.
BRAZIL and SAMOA warned against sacrificing environmental integrity of the CDM, while AUSTRALIA and SWITZERLAND asserted that rules can be simplified while maintaining stringency in environmental outcomes.
Lesotho, for the LDCs, called for broadening the scope of eligible LULUCF activities under the CDM.
 Luxembourg, on behalf of the European Union , urged delegates to build on the positive experience of the SOGE, and supported setting in motion procedures on the post-2012 period.
 SPAIN, on behalf of the EU, said that the guidelines for non-Annex I Parties communications should be flexible so as to take into account the wide diversity among developing countries.
SWITZERLAND, the EU and AUSTRALIA said a sufficient methodological basis now exists for REDD activities, and the EU and PAPUA NEW GUINEA supported a COP decision on methodological issues in Poznań.
 Several delegates, including SUDAN, KENYA, INDIA, SPAIN, VENEZULA, GERMANY, and FRANCE, supported moving forward with new scenarios.
MOROCCO said an adaptation fund should be funded from financial sanctions in case of non-compliance and, with SENEGAL, added that the three mechanisms should feed into it.
Saudi Arabia, for the Arab Group, urged Annex I parties to commit themselves to scaled-up emission reduction objectives in line with science and the reports of the IPCC.
MEXICO and BRAZIL emphasized building on existing institutions.
On institutional arrangements, CANADA, supported by AUSTRALIA, said that the discussion on functions should first focus on the results that parties wish to see in the longer term and then consider how to construct the best possible mechanism for realizing them.
Mali, for the AFRICAN GROUP, noted that national capabilities and differentiation in developing procedures and modalities should also be reflected.
Saudi Arabia expressed deep gratitude to Mexico and the Presidency, indicated that a balance can be achieved and supported Venezuela’s proposal to consider the texts under the AWGs.
Grenada, for AOSIS, and AUSTRALIA also supported the proposal, with AUSTRALIA saying that “governments cannot afford another six million dollar agenda.” BOLIVIA requested the meeting’s record reflect that Decision 1.CP/16 was adopted despite the formal and explicit objection by one party to the Convention.
Switzerland, for the EIG, said the new draft is “clearly our text” and “we are ready to start negotiating,” noting parties’ right to bring in text, especially bridging proposals.
Opposed by SAUDI ARABIA and supported by MEXICO and the EU, he recommended renewing SBSTA 92s mandate on this issue.
SOUTH AFRICA, supported by MEXICO, proposed launching a process for discussing transparency rules during 2015, with SOUTH AFRICA saying this should be reflected in the ADP conclusions from Lima.
The EU, BRAZIL and others underscored comparability of efforts and action by Annex I non-ratifiers of the Protocol.
On sources of information, the US, supported by NEW ZEALAND and SAMOA, suggested text permitting outsider participation.
Congo, Mali, Benin and Togo underlined the role of language barriers in preventing the involvement of some researchers and consideration of literature from developing countries.
 MEXICO, supported by COLOMBIA, introduced a proposal to allow a “last resort” vote in cases when every effort to reach consensus has failed on issues that carry broad support.
The US, EU and Canada suggested that the paragraph on the adequacy of support could be in decision text or the global stocktake.
Chile suggested adding reference to “countries most vulnerable to climate change impacts.” Emphasizing the need for a component of unconditionality in parties’ mitigation contributions, the US recognized that the LDCs have specific constraints, but opposed referencing any other group.
Bangladesh, for LDCs, indicated that countries that have developed unsustainably in the past have a primary responsibility to develop a global low-carbon economy and society.
The EU said that Canada 92s insurance policies approach does not fully address non-permanence because insurance can expire as early as ten years after the end of the crediting period.
The Umbrella Group also drew attention to the Group’s joint statement on nature and scale of fast-track financing, highlighting that it “represents billions of dollars.” Spain, for the EU, noted progress during the session, but expressed concern at the slow pace of the discussions, particularly on mitigation.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by SAUDI ARABIA and the EU, highlighted the cordial and businesslike atmosphere at COP-5.
AOSIS, Mexico and Uganda noted that Annex I countries are not fulfilling their commitments and emissions are on the rise.
Egypt, for the G-77/CHINA, observed a step back in negotiations on: finance, where he said there is a dilution of developed countries’ obligations; and NDCs, where he stressed that they are “full scope” and reflect differentiation.
Kenya suggested that a review might include consideration of active work with the scientific community in areas of comparative advantage and capacity building in developing countries, and Australia, with Chair Pachauri, noted that some scope for capacity building exists within the current terms of reference.
AOSIS, called for an “action-oriented focus.” SOUTH AFRICA called for identifying vulnerabilities.
On the scale of emission reductions, AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND said this issue cannot be clarified at this time, as it depends on the legal and methodological context.
France called for maintaining reference to the long-term 2     c2 b0C goal, while Estonia echoed Saint Lucia’s earlier request to also refer to the 1.5     c2 b0C target.
VENEZUELA, with ALGERIA, KENYA and several others, requested inserting a footnote stating that the content of this section is not compatible with the principles of the Convention and the BAP.
Good practices for policy response included: ecotourism and generating revenue from conservation; the Caribbean experience of including climate change in EIAs; the Safe Island Programme in the Maldives; and a programme in Latin America that
The UK supported inclusion of a range of representative concentration pathways, while Estonia called for addressing the economic and social opportunities embedded in these pathways.
CANADA and NEW ZEALAND said existing institutions should continue.
 : Algeria, for the G-77/CHINA, called for, inter alia: further discussion on agriculture and adaptation; and identification of potential areas of future work under the the Nairobi Work Programme on Impacts, Vulnerability and Adaptation .
MOROCCO said the imbalance of projects under the AIJ pilot phase was inequitable and ZIMBABWE recommended its extension.
Maldives, for AOSIS, and SOUTH AFRICA lamented that the procedures of accreditation remain too complex.
TUVALU and ERITREA noted problems in the communication process between the financial mechanism and the implementing agencies.
Australia, for the UMBRELLA GROUP, called for a conversation on how to make the SBSTA more efficient.
The EU and SWITZERLAND stressed the need to cover all elements of the AWG-KP’s work programme.
MEXICO said his country could go along with the G-77/China proposal.
Many developing countries, including Brazil, India, Mexico, Bolivia and others, proposed to exclude such project activities from the CDM.
New Zealand and India expressed concern that averaging over a commitment period does not reflect long-term forestry cycles.
  Regarding a list of specific impacts from climate change, Saudi Arabia and South Africa said the definition should either refer to all impacts or not list any.
Switzerland, for the ENVIRONMENTAL INTEGRITY GROUP , outlined three important steps for Durban: agreeing on key elements of an international regime after 2012; launching a process to further strengthen the regime in the mid-term; and agreeing on the key elements of a shared vision, including a long-term global goal for emission reductions and a date for peaking of global emissions.
Japan, with Australia, said that P&amp;Ms should be self-assessed.
Colombia, for AILAC, said that some areas need more time in informal informal consultations, citing the finance, transparency, and adaptation communications.
SAUDI ARABIA, with the EU, called for addressing function prior to the issue of a name.
The G-77/CHINA, supported by THAILAND and SAUDI ARABIA, opposed text in the EU 92s proposal, which calls on non-Annex I Parties to submit project proposals not later than one year after submission of their previous communication.
CHINA, supported by INDIA, underscored the urgency of providing guidance in order to operationalize the Fund.
ALGERIA, with Grenada, for the CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY, said the new agreement should be based on all the elements identified in Durban, calling for loss and damage as a separate element of the agreement.
The UK underlined an emissions pathway to 2050, set by a carbon budget consisting of four budget periods and said that the carbon budgets of the first two periods will be solely met by the EU ETS and domestic efforts.
With AUSTRALIA and CANADA, she said a discussion on institutional mechanisms is premature.
Australia and Japan welcomed President Elyazghi 92s intention to consult and report back to the COP before the High-Level Segment on the agenda item "second review of the adequacy of Article 4.2  and ," and said they looked forward to a full discussion of this issue at COP-8.
CHILE said the AGBM needs to take a political decision and recalled that when the UNFCCC was negotiated, the EU made a binding declaration to establish a stronger sense of commitment.
On text relating to Article 3.14, the G-77/China, with Brazil, Colombia, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, suggested removing the paragraph recognizing the role of flexibility mechanisms in minimizing the impacts of response measures on non-Annex I Parties.
On reference emission levels, MEXICO called for developing approaches that countries may choose from, according to national circumstances, and BOLIVIA proposed “development adjustment factors.”
The G-77/China and AOSIS expressed concern that emissions could continue to rise despite mitigation measures, and urged Annex I Parties to implement more rigorous policies and measures.
Australia and Japan supported taking up sectoral approaches in the AWGLCA.
BRAZIL and INDIA supported capping carryover of AAUs.
The African Group, South Africa, Chile, for AILAC, Panama, for CfRN, Nauru, for AOSIS, Brazil and Mexico called for building on the existing MRV framework, with some suggesting it could evolve over time.
The AFRICAN GROUP, supported by Bangladesh, for the LDCs, called for a focus on actions rather than processes.
  Micronesia, for AOSIS, supported an aggregate reduction of more than 40% by 2020 and urged reductions of 85-95% by 2050.
Tuvalu, for AOSIS, said Annex I parties’ commitments should take the form of nationwide targets and 1990 should remain the base year for such targets.
The EU said a workshop co-organized by the CCD and CBD on identifying and promoting synergies through forest and forest ecosystems would be held in March 2004, in Viterbo, Italy.
He said about 28% of Ireland’s emissions are covered by the EU Emissions Trading Scheme , the remaining 72% are covered by the EU Effort-Sharing Decision and that Ireland’s national emission reduction target is 20% below 2005 levels by 2020.
Switzerland, Canada, the US, Norway, New Zealand and Australia opposed a short-term quantitative goal in the post-2020 period.
New Zealand, Japan, Canada, the United Arab Emirates and the Republic of Korea supported the second option, which requests the Secretariat, to inter alia: organize a dialogue between June 2015 ADP session and COP 21 with the objective of facilitating the clarity, transparency and understanding of the communicated INDCs and prepare a technical paper in advance of the dialogue on the aggregate effect of the INDCs communicated by parties prior to 30 June 2015.
The EU, supported by Tuvalu, for the LDCs, emphasized the need for a follow-up process to the communication of INDCs, and indicated, with Trinidad and Tobago,
The Netherlands, with Belgium, said further work is required on traceable account of uncertainty, and said the guidance notes should be finalized and make clear reference to their treatment of the IAC recommendations.
 By the conclusion of the session, the Contact Group was unable to make a recommendation and asked Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Uruguay to hold consultations among themselves before COP-1 to facilitate a decision on the issue.
In closing statements, Grenada, for AOSIS, expressed disappointment with the outcome under mitigation, describing it as “one of the very few weak points in the outcome so far.” Chair Ashe closed the AWG-KP shortly after 1:00 am.
The Philippines, for the G-77/CHINA, said the GEF is not the financial mechanism but its operating entity.
TUVALU suggested exploring agricultural soil carbon improvement, INDONESIA highlighted forest restoration, and PAKISTAN supported full land coverage.
Bangladesh, for the G-77/China, said the situation was regrettable and urged parties in the position to offer resources to do so.
Pakistan, for the G-77/CHINA, stressed the unique vulnerability of least developed countries , the African region, and small island developing states .
CHINA opposed any attempt to merge the two AWGs but said they could go along with the proposal by Colombia if the discussion was strictly limited to discussion of Annex I emission reductions and was compatible with the respective mandates of the AWGs.
Barbados, for AOSIS, stressed that operationalizing the GCF cannot be delayed in spite of its shortcomings, which include lack of a dedicated SIDS and LDC funding window, and the lack of provision for a replenishment process.
INDIA and ARGENTINA reiterated the LMDCs proposal on clustering.
