JAPAN, supported by the US, noted that the group did not need to produce a draft decision.
The US, supported by CANADA, stated that technology transfer should be considered in the context of Article 4.5 (technology transfer).
ECUADOR outlined efforts being taken in Latin America and the Caribbean regarding the WCDR.
This contact group was co-chaired by Roger Cornforth (New Zealand) and Shirley Moroka (South Africa).
TANZANIA, for the G-77/China, underscored the principles outlined in decision 2/CP.7 and said the Group will provide a submission on 9 December to serve as a basis for further discussion.
The EU, US and others suggested instead that the Co-Chairs draft a text based on input from all interested Parties and relevant documents.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;PANAMA highlighted a GEF regional adaptation project being implemented in Central America, Mexico and Cuba, which aims to assess current vulnerability to climate hazards through a process involving all stakeholders.
SAUDI ARABIA emphasized the importance of adaptation to the impacts of response measures, and, with JAPAN and others, stressed the value of exchanging information.
The COP addressed Protocol Article 6 (joint implementation), the report of the CDM Executive Board (EB), and an exchange of views on UNFCCC activities relevant to the international meeting for the 10-year review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of SIDS (BPOA+10), the World Conference on Disaster Reduction (WCDR) and the process for providing input to the fourteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD-14).
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;AOSIS, with several others, highlighted the relevance of climate change to the intergovernmental processes and urged the convening of a workshop before COP-11 on developing an international insurance facility to address damages from climate change impacts in SIDS.
JAPAN and the EU urged greater transparency in the EB 92s work.
The EU, COSTA RICA and ARGENTINA stressed the need to prioritize energy projects.
The US, supported by SAUDI ARABIA, said observers should be allowed to physically attend open EB meetings and expressed concern over JI Supervisory Committee and Compliance Committee rules that limit attendance to Parties to the Protocol.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;In response to the US 92 suggestion that non-Annex I Parties provide regular updates to their greenhouse gas inventories, the G-77/CHINA said that inventories are a 93non-issue 94 in the context of the contact group 92s work as no COP decisions require such updates and therefore the contact group should not address inventories.
 This contact group was co-chaired by Soobaraj Nayroo Sok Appadu (Mauritius) and Anders Turesson (Sweden) and addressed the submission of second and, where appropriate, third national communications.
Delegates discussed the draft decision forwarded from SBI-20, and two submissions, one by the G-77/China and the other by the US, that focus on the timing of financing and completion of second or third non-Annex I national communications.
This contact group was co-chaired by Rawleston Moore (Barbados) and Jozef Buys (Belgium).
SOUTH AFRICA, for the G-77/China, reiterated concerns on the GEF adding conditionalities to access the SCCF and suggested that the review of the financial mechanism be addressed by SBI-22.
The US and CANADA said parameters from the previous review could be used.
EGYPT and ALGERIA urged greater simplification of modalities and procedures.
