CHINA, for G-77/ China, suggested including data on impacts of mitigation policies.
URUGUAY proposed a scientific review and SWITZERLAND suggested publishing a collection of best practices.
ARGENTINA, with PANAMA, welcomed the pledges to the SCCF, but noted that these are insufficient for effectively supporting adaptation and disaster response.
AOSIS, supported by the AFRICA GROUP, LDCs, NAMIBIA, CUBA and UGANDA, expressed concern over the interpretation of COP guidance by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), underlining that the most vulnerable countries face difficulty in accessing GEF funds due to the burden of co-financing requirements, the existence of additional criteria and indicators not adopted by the COP, and the narrow scope of adaptation projects eligible under the GEF.
SWITZERLAND noted that the new criteria seek to simplify the incremental cost principle and the US welcomed the differentiation in criteria applied to the General Trust Fund and SCCF.
SAUDI ARABIA, for G-77/China, requested more time to consider the relevant document prepared by the Secretariat.
A contact group co-chaired by Tony Surridge (South Africa) and Michael Young (Ireland) will address the agenda item.
MICRONESIA emphasized SIDS 92 difficulties in accessing funds.
NEW ZEALAND suggested that the GEF should be more flexible and provide support for small-scale projects in SIDS.
This contact group was co-chaired by Audun Rosland (Norway) and William Kojo Agyemang-Bonsu (Ghana).
Delegates heard presentations from Canada and Sweden on reporting systems for the Protocol and engaged in a question-and-answer session.
Co-Chair Rosland, supported by the EU, CANADA and JAPAN, proposed removing all brackets in the draft negotiating text forwarded from SBSTA-20 and deleting the option on the common reporting format referring to Article 6.
BRAZIL, for G-77/China, requested time to consider the matter further, but hoped to reach agreement on the issue at COP-10.
AOSIS, opposed by CANADA and NEW ZEALAND, said SBSTA should request the IPCC to revise "method one" (units of land subject to multiple activities) in the GPG.
Thelma Krug (Brazil) and Jim Penman (UK) co-chaired this contact group.
On definitions of small-scale A&amp;R CDM, JAPAN, with several Parties, and opposed by AOSIS, supported reference to average projected net anthropogenic greenhouse gas removals by sinks.
AOSIS, opposed by CHILE, JAPAN, and PERU, proposed deletion of text stating that projects will be exempt from, or subject to, paying a lower share of proceeds to the Protocol ef bf bds Adaptation Fund.
CANADA, with several Parties, and opposed by the EU and AOSIS, supported maintaining reference to reduced rates of the share of project proceeds to cover administrative expenses, noting that costs are the greatest barrier for low income communities.
class="ENB-Body" align="justify"&gt;A contact group, co-chaired by Rawleston Moore (Barbados) and Jozef Buys (Belgium), will address the SCCF, implementation of decision 5/CP.8 and additional guidance to the GEF.
AOSIS urged assistance to SIDS.
 BRAZIL, for the G-77/China, said that non-Annex I Parties require additional time and support for preparing their national communications, and preferred not having a specific schedule for the submission of national communications.
AUSTRALIA, for the Umbrella Group, called for agreement at COP-10 on a schedule for submissions.
A contact group co-chaired by Soobaraj Nayroo Sok Appadu (Mauritius) and Anders Turesson (Sweden) will address the matter.
ARGENTINA voiced concern over the GEF 92s administrative costs, and, with MAURITIUS and UGANDA, called for transparency on the use of donor funds.
A contact group, co-chaired by Outi Bergh ef bf bdll (Finland) and Marcela Main (Chile) will address the issue.
AUSTRALIA, with the EU and US, called for further development of the UNFCCC website.
Branca Americano (Brazil) and Helen Plume (New Zealand) will facilitate informal consultations on the issue.
The contact group, co-chaired by Paul Watkinson (France) and Samuel Adejuwon (Nigeria), reviewed the draft decision from SBI-20, identifying the proponents of each paragraph and outstanding issues.
TANZANIA, for the G-77/China, identified the need for indicators and a reporting and monitoring procedure.
Roger Cornforth (New Zealand) and Shirley Moroka (South Africa) will co-chair a contact group.
INDIA, for G-77/China, proposed to evaluate the balance between senior staff coming from Annex I and non-Annex I Parties.
Opposed by the EU, SAUDI ARABIA suggested keeping this item permanently on the agenda.
The EU and SWITZERLAND highlighted the merit of an information clearing house.
